# Human Life After AGI Jack Hidary

Published: 2025-12-06

What does Sandbox AQ do and what do you think about quantum computing? >> Sandbox AQ, A for AIQ for quantum. This is ultimately the twin engines of the transformation of our society. What technology has done for us is model our world and then be able to change our world using the data from that modeling. The AI and quantum coming together gives us a new superpower and it's it's upon us in the next four or five years. 2030 is my prediction where I think we'll have the kind of impact that is business impact, societal impact. It's not going to be winner takes all >> these non-intuitive nonhuman domains. The AI with the training data is just as good or better there. It's not replacing humans. It's adding things that we otherwise couldn't do. >> Once the capabilities there, we'll have an explosion of imagination. Is there going to be that that moment where people go, "Oh my god." I think it's going to be when >> Now that's a moonshot, ladies and gentlemen. >> All right, everybody. Welcome to our Moonshots episode. We're going to be recording an episode here in Riad at FI9 of our Moonshots podcast. I'm very pleased to be joined by our Moonshot mates, Salem Ismael, the head of Exo. See, welcome. >> Let's give it up for Salem Ismael, everybody. >> Pretty welcome. >> All right. Right here. Dave Blondon, my other Moonshot mate. Give it up for Dave London. Dave. >> All right, buddy. And as a special guest, we have here Jack Hittery, the CEO of Sandbox AQ. Jack, bring it up. >> Jack, I am always I can always count on you to bring the hat >> and the energy. >> And the energy >> and and the energy for sure. >> Woo. Let's do it. >> A fusion power source. >> Let's do it. >> Um, so in our moonshot conversation today, gentlemen, I want to cover three subjects. I want you to bring all of it to the table. Don't hold back. We're in the middle of this incredible location with 6,000 of our closest friends. >> Quick question. How many of you in the audience have listened to the podcast? Just show fans. >> All right. >> A lot of fans. A lot of fans. >> Amazing. >> Okay. >> So, this is a conversation on three subjects today. The first is energy. >> The second is robotics. And we're going to wrap up because we've got Jack here on quantum. So, let's begin with uh with energy. uh question ultimately is what do we do with abundant energy and let me just uh look at my notes here one moment uh so today China has added 429 gawatt of new power in 2024 as opposed to the US at 51 gawatts of power there is an electron gap that's significant we're seeing the emergence of small module reactors SMR Mars. We're seeing basically corporations going out and buying their own nuclear power sources, investing in Gen 4 fision, investing in fusion. By my last count, there's 37 fusionbacked or 37 fusion VCbacked companies that are in production, but we're still woefully inadequately short in the United States and most in the world for energy. What are your thoughts, Jack? Can I kick us off? >> Sure. Well, Peter, it's it's fascinating in energy right now. We're in a very odd limited period of scarcity. And so, we're not seeing the big picture, which is abundance is coming very soon. Somebody wrote a book about abundance. Who? Okay. Um right now, if you look at uh for example gas turbines, 40% of electricity in the United States, about uh 35% in Europe is supplied by gas. An increasing amount here in the Gulf is moving to gas as well. What is the wait time right now to get a gas turbine? Something that looks like a propeller that allows you to make electricity. I'll take bids starting at 6 months. What's the wait time for getting a gas turbine? >> Three years. >> Two years. >> Five years. >> Five years. It's four and a half years right now. So GE, Mitsubishi heavy, and uh Seammens are the producers. Fouryear weight. They're not willing to actually make more capacity because the last time they did, they got burned. And so that's not happening. So we have this little odd period where there's lots of data centers, lots of AI demand, open AI, Stargates, all kinds of stuff happening, but you can't it's very hard to make it happen. What's going to happen starting though in 7 8 9 years is we're going to flip the script to abundance. And what's going to happen is uh the SMRs that you just mentioned Peter on the nuclear side are kicking in. Other nuclear kicking in uh various governments right now are about to build factories to make more turbines. Uh and so that's really going to be fixed as well. And then in terms of solar and batteries, we're going to see step function change. Right now, we're at about 27% efficiency in terms of photons, light going to electricity in solar panels. That's going to move up because of material science breakthroughs because of quantum. >> I'll give you another story exactly supporting what you said. I took a tour of the biggest quantum data center in America. Uh, and Jeff Markley had just built this thing and he tried to buy 5 gawatt generators. They're sold out. There are none. So he bought every 3 gawatt generator that was left. So then he bought a million valves. I said, "What are you going to do with a million valves?" He's like, "Well, look, it's all liquid cooled. I'm going to need the valves, but the last time I tried to build something, everything was sold out. I'm not taking that chance anymore. I'm going to buy a million valves and be ready." >> So any some valve manufacturing company just became a unicorn over. >> Can I get a hand mic for Jack over here, please? Um See, what do we do with abundant energy? So, let's go to Jack Hiter's thesis. Uh, you know, 7 8 10 years from now, we've got more capacity of energy than we've ever been able to use. >> Yeah. >> What are we doing with it? >> Well, I think there it's very hard to project, right? We've had 10,000 years of civilization on a scarcity of energy and suddenly we flip to abundance. We're going to have this amazing uh challenge of thinking through what do we do with it? If you have abundant energy, desalinization becomes largely much less expensive, right? If you have fresh water, you take out half of all the infectious diseases in the world. The ripple effects start to propagate. >> Energy tips everything. >> Energy tips everything. Uh food becomes easy. Uh and so the the ripple effects are so profound. We have to rethink all of society. Think about the idea that the last 100 years almost all the wars have been fought over oil, right? So hopefully we should have less wars. We're human beings so we'll fight other things to fight about. But it will decrease the need for uh overt aggression in the way we have. >> How many countries in the world do we have dependent on the pro dollar? Russia, Venezuela, you know, obviously here in the Middle East, >> probably about 40. >> And so what happens to their economies when we've got abundance energy from everything else? >> Huge impact. I mean take Canada, right? I'm Canadian. 40% of exports are oil. uh when do we have abundant solar or other uh technologies, the marginal cost of extraction there is like $50 a barrel. Here it's like $7 a barrel. So there's no way the the expensive countries are going to be able to compete on oil in the future. So it'll be moving the geopolitics is crazy. One thesis I have is that uh the reason Russia invaded Ukraine is in a few years there are 70% of exports of oil and gas are not going to be worth much. They have to >> Dr. Dr. Peter >> uh Peter just to add to Sel's point mentioned it in passing want to double click on the health care implications 50% of all the hospital beds occupied in the continent of Africa are due to bad water due to infections and bacteria and viruses carried by water related to water mosquitoes also standing water. So once you have fresh water because of abundant energy then suddenly you free up huge amounts of the healthare system and people become much healthier and so just the implications for water and then the downsize effect the down effect of healthcare is already multi- trillion in nature not multi-billion terms of its effect and then when you think about what you can do in terms of transport transport is expensive because of energy and so if you can now transport stuff from place to place you again change global economics. So, I don't think we're ready. I don't think the uh global political leaders have really taken into account what's going to happen starting 6, seven years from now when we flip from scarcity to abundance here. >> Closing thought, Dave, on energy. >> Yeah. Well, so you know, we're right here in Saudi Arabia. Saudi is playing the cards absolutely perfectly because the way this will play out is that the data centers are moving to where the energy is. So, this is a brand new thing in the world. the energy used to need to move to the population, hence all the tankers. You know, the oil has to go there. But that doesn't work with it doesn't have to work that way with the AI. The AI can come to the energy. So, there's huge amounts of natural gas uh that gets wasted. There's huge amounts of oil that is expensive to export. Why not data center here? And there's >> what's what's the quote on solar energy here? >> Uh was it you saying no, it was EMOD that was telling us about it earlier? EOD, what's the the quote on on solar energy? So, I can repeat it. >> Three. So the solar energy here in Saudi is three times cheaper than it is in the United States. >> I was going to say Aqua Power, the largest deployer of solar and wind, is a Saudi company. >> People think of Saudi as only oil. Not the case. >> Yeah. Yeah. Second of the energy. Once the data centers are built, >> you're locked and loaded. The data center is not going to move. These are massive capital inventive. Once once that's on the ground, no matter what happens with Fusion, you're good to go. >> Fascinating. And then you have Bill Gross building the energy storage system. >> Bill Gross. >> And then off off you go there. We'll hear from him in a little bit. Let's move to our second subject which is the world of humanoid robotics uh embodied intelligence. You know last year I was on stage here uh on the main stage here with Elon talking about robots. His prediction is 10 billion humanoid robots by 2040 uh and a price point of you know 20 to $30,000. We heard yesterday, today I interviewed uh Dr. Robert Player, the CEO of Boston Dynamics. Tomorrow I'm interviewing the team from 1X. Today 1X announced their pricing on their Neo Gamma robot. They're selling it at $20,000 and they're going to be leasing it at $499 a month. Now, this is before we've gone into production, right? When we get to millions of robots, tens and hundreds of millions of robots, we're going to see the price come down at these price points. Think about, you know, $10 a day, 40 cents an hour for labor. Labor running GPT 5, 6 or 7 or, you know, Gro 10 >> super intelligence. What do you guys think about robots coming? Jack, >> just to kick off, the first five factories where robots are building robots have begun construction. There's two in the US, there's three in China. And so they're not ready yet. They're not in production, but these factories will be ready in the next 6, 12, 18 months. And that's where you begin to get some of the kind of scale that Elon's talking about. Not sure about the the number he had, but the point is it's directionally correct. They're the iPhone production scales. >> That's right. And when robots can make robots, now we're in a whole different ballgame. And the second thing you add, of course, is that the LLMs, the software side's getting better, and that software gets implanted in the embodied robot. And therefore, the kind of programming we thought we had to do back when a lot of us were thinking about robotics on this stage here, uh, a number of years ago, we thought, wow, the coding, the programming, no, that's out the window because we now have an intelligence that can see something and do something. And so this is a very different future where at FI we can make a prediction right now uh FI two years from now there'll be quite a few robots walking amongst us maybe even some on stage presenting uh and I think that's going to have a profound impact in terms of first initially warehouse logistics profound impact on that whole sector there and then also in hospitals we're seeing already penetration of about 20% of hospitals in America have some kind of robotic helper not for medicine, not for surgery, but for the mundane things in hospitals, bringing up the towels, the linens, the food, the medicine, things like that. >> But eventually, we're heading towards surgery, right? >> We're getting there, but right now already adoption today. If you go to hospitals in America, you'll see a 20% adoption right now. Imagine when they're better and humanoid. >> I don't buy it. Okay, I have three points. Uh, one, I totally agree with the industrial use of robots. massive opportunities especially for the dull dirty dangerous jobs. Um I think supply chain issues are much deeper than people think. So I don't see how we could end up with a billion robots uh down the down the line uh at least in the foreseeable future. Um I think it's going to get take a lot longer to get there. Um I am coming around to the software adaptation side. These things are going to learn very very quickly. But as I said on our last podcast, can we please get the Roomba working at least before we start thinking about all sorts of other household tasks, I think industrial uses where we start and have a profound penetration there before you bring it into the home. And your idea of a robot per room, I don't think that's going to happen. >> To your point, my household is the last place. >> Thank you. >> I agree 100%. the amount of variables in a house, dogs walking, running around, kids, there are way more variables in a house than any factory on this planet, >> which is by the way why, for example, 1X wants to go in the house. They want to have a enough of a variety where they can pick up and get data and learn, right? We've sucked up every single data point. >> They may injure some kids on the way, but they're going to learn. Yes. >> Point. Um, one thought from our last podcast, you know, we had that little video of the robot kickboxing. >> Yes. From a marketing perspective, it feels to me like kickboxing is not the first task you should show a robot doing. It should be the Yeah. Massage. Have it vacuuming the floors. Have it cleaning the dishes. I don't want a kickboxing robot standing next to me. That's going to be unnerving. You want to convey a sense of safety and comfort, not UFC in the house. >> Oh my god. Dave, thoughts. >> So, we talked about the only reason they're humanoid at all and don't have six arms like you want is because it inspires people. And when they kickbox, it inspires me. And this is where China is running away with the robot Olympics. >> Yeah, it's like it's inspirational. And watching soccer games through robots, it's inspirational. Let's >> talk about Let's talk about the China of it all. >> Peter, you had some export export stats. >> Yeah, I I do. So, here's here's what's going on, right? There are two hot beds of of robot manufacturing. United States has got probably about 30 humanoid robot companies. We hear about the top five or six, but there many there's a long tail here. China is at least that. You know, I'm putting out my humanoid robot report uh in uh about a week's time and we're tracking on the order of a 100 humanoid robots, a lot of them out of China. And it's interesting, right, as China goes out to the world, um and I understand why, and provides, you know, free open- source AI models. We're having those models adopted by country after country. In the Chinese robot space, what we're seeing is that it's the upand cominging countries that are not technologically forward like Poland, Mexico, Russia, and Vietnam that are buying Chinese robots. >> Yeah. >> So, uh Poland is 1700% increase in uh robots coming in from China. Mexico is at 275%, Russia 135, and Vietnam 114. the countries which are technologically forward uh South Korea, Germany, US are not importing the Russ the uh the Chinese robots. Yeah, I think I think it's important to note though that China you know the Chinese economy grew at 10% plus for what two decades uh largely by bringing manufacturing into China and using this 1.4 4 billion person labor pool to win manufacturing wars all over the world >> and that pool is going away. >> That is about to implode so badly if they don't race to robotics all that. >> Yeah, they have to because of the population. >> That makes sense to me there. Totally makes sense. >> Yeah. Well, that's why they got ahead. Now, now the US needs to bring manufacturing back. That's going to take some time and then robotics goes hand in hand with that because the US just doesn't have that labor pool. So it's a very different dynamic in China versus the US and that's why it got into the state that it's in right now. >> Professor Hery, >> I think we're going to see really different variability in terms of the penetration of Chinese robots in different countries. Let's take Japan as an example. Japan had a head start in robotics. Everyone remember the OIMO robot from >> I do. Amazing. >> Okay. Program closed. >> It g it greeted profess uh President Obama. >> It's an example of being too early. It's bad to be too late, but also too early is very difficult, too. Japan's birth rate is well below replacement rate. They're shrinking from 145 million people to 90 million people. And they've always thought it's robots that going to help take care of the older people because there's no young people to take care of the older people. But they're going to be Chinese robots, not Japanese robots. That's the kicker. And when it comes to the states, I think there will be some adoption of robots from China, but there's going to be some sensitive areas such as supply chain, defense, so on and so forth where some more expensive robots, be it Tesla, be it Figure.ai, and others will also have a play. So, I think they're going to coexist here. Uh, in Europe, we're seeing BYD on the car side penetrate and demolish the European car companies. My prediction is the same on robotics. >> Amazing. All right, I want to take our last 10 minutes of this Moonshot podcast to talk about the quantum of it all. So, we just saw the Google's chief scientist, Michelle Devet, win the Nobel Prize. Google is just racking up Nobel prizes. Congratulations to our our family at Google. Uh we just saw the the >> Google Willow uh reach what they call quantum advantage, which is a marketing term. We can talk about what that means, but announcing a thousand a 13,000x increase over classical computing. And let's talk about what it means, Jack, to have a quantum advantage. Talk about what Sandbox AQ. Eric Schmidt is your chairman. You're the CEO. You have skyrocketed. You came out of Google X at like a half a billion dollar valuation and you've been on an exponential growth curve since then. Uh what is what does Sandbox AQ do and what do you think about quantum computing? >> Well, thanks Peter. Quantum is the kind of thing that both scares shocks and exhilarates people at the same time. We should probably make a pill called the quantum pill so that people get excited just take the pill. Uh quantum is upon us. We've gone from 5 years ago people saying will anyone ever really build a real quantum computer? Will it ever have any impact? I think it's clear now that we're headed to a yes. Now the question is when? My prediction to you on stage here is 2030 will be a critical year where we'll have a usable quantum computer. >> What does that mean? What is usable? >> So usable means that there there's two aspects to quantum. The positive and the negative. The positive side we're going to be able to render this world model this world down to the subatomic level. Why is that important? You want to make a drug for cancer, for brain cancer. You want to make a drug for Alzheimer's. You want to make a new material out of hydrocarbon outflow and make a carbon composite to make cars lighter, more fuel efficient. You want a quantum computer because it it is the best modeler, the best simulator of our physical world. And that's going to be great. And in 2030, we're going to do that, I think, with some really good power with a quantum computer. It won't be the ultimate quantum computer, but it'll be pretty good. On the negative side, we're going to cross a threshold around that same year, 2030, when a quantum computer will break, we'll break all the cyber security, the public cyber in your phone. When WhatsApp says end to end encrypted, that is using a protocol that quantum breaks. And so, if you have blockchain, anyone here have cryptocurrency, any Bitcoiners in the room, right? you want to worry about this because eventually this is going to be something that we have to switch the blockchain to a quantum safe uh program. So 2030 is my prediction where I think we'll have the kind of impact that is business impact, societal impact. We're still going to have to wait till the super scale quantum computers to do even bigger things. But four or five years from now, I think we're going to make some really good headway. And I think several companies, it's not going to be winner takes all. This is not a winner takes all game. the government. >> There's no network effect. >> The US government's going to take all >> um they're definitely a player in the game. So that's on quantum computing. It's worth mentioning though, Peter, that quantum computing is not the only game. Quantum sensing is here today. Sensors that can see how your heart's doing because the magnetic field in your heart way better than any ECG or an MRI actually are here today. And so sensing is something that maybe another podcast we can talk about, but look it up online. quantum sensing and fundamentally where is this all going? Where it's going is that we need AI to actually interpret a lot of the output of these quantum devices. There is no human on earth that could see a quantum sensor and read it natively. Our minds would literally blow up. And so AI has been fundamental in turning these from laboratory ideas to commercial products. Sandbox AQ. Yes, we actually named our company A for AIQ for quantum many years ago. We saw this merger coming because this is ultimately the twin engines of the transformation of our society. What technology has done for us and all of us on stage are are part of this is model our world and then be able to change our world using the data from that modeling. That's what we've done in the past 70 years and that's where we have pushed forward technology in such a great degree. the AI and quantum coming together gives us a new superpower and it's it's upon us in the next four or five years. >> Philim thoughts uh I think it's huge. I think one area that uh is going to be really interesting is almost all the computational applications are for classical computers and we just don't have the imagination to what could we do with a quantum computer. So people dismiss it, but I think once the capabilities there, we'll have an explosion of imagination as to the types of problems. And you're probably dealing with them more than anybody else right now. So in a few years, we'll all be wearing hats like yours trying to imagine what are the quantum applications of the future. >> He's wearing that hat so his brain doesn't explode. >> That's right. Holding it contained in one place. Um, and I think that's where there'll be a massive opportunity is the application side of it. >> Yeah, Dave. Yeah. I I think one of the coolest things about what's happening in AI right now is, you know, when most people think about what you do with AI, they think in terms of, okay, here's a person doing call center work, here's a person doing white collar, let's here's a person, here's a robot walking around cleaning my house, let's move that over to AI. >> But actually AI is even better in these domains like can you program this really complicated quantum comput? Can you contain a fusion reaction with a really complicated magnetic field? these non-intuitive non-human domains. The AI with the training data is just as good or better there. And that that's so green field. It's it's additive to humanity. It's not replacing humans. It's adding things that we otherwise couldn't do. And quantum is just one of those things. >> Jack, what's it going to look like when we hit our chat GPT moment in quantum? Is there going to be that that moment where people go, "Oh my god, >> we're going to have two Chat GPT moments in quantum." The first is going to be when secrets of our society, our companies will literally be dis exposed by hackers on the internet. Quantum computers are not just going to be in the hands of great governments and companies. Uh because it's cloud-based and because those clouds are everywhere, including many countries, uh hackers will have access to quantum techniques. Once it's known how to build a quantum computer of scale, it will be rebuilt and replicated all around the world. And that means that one of the GPT moments is going to be suddenly really confidential stuff from the CIA from governments is going to pop up submarine style on the internet and uh unless people protect themselves that is going to happen. So there'll be a wakeup call again roughly in that year 2029 2030 when people who have not protected themselves are suddenly going to be like how did this happen? I thought I was encrypted. You were encrypted just now we can read it. So that's gonna be one chap. The other chatd moment I think is going to be when and this is Moa strip right back to the beginning of our conversation on energy. The number one thing that's holding back fusion power which would give us abundance. One of the many things that would gives abundance is it's very hard to model the plasma that's in a fusion reactor. It's really hard to model when on the other ignition type facility you have millions of lasers going into a little dot. Quantum computing is the first computing platform that gives us the power to model what's happening in a fusion reactor that will accelerate us probably by 10 to 20 years. So we're fully back now circular into the energy abundance. >> So interestingly enough, right, I had breakfast this morning with Lupan who's the CEO of Intel. Uh the US government takes a 10% position in Intel and the stock has been flying ever since. Those of us holding Intel options are celebrating. Yay. We just saw a whole number of quantum computing stocks literally go up 15 20%. Right. Because the US government considering taking a position them. How do you think about the government taking positions in in these technology companies? Dave, you want us you want to kick us off? I I I think they're brilliant investments, mostly David Sachs driving the agenda, and they're incredibly valuable for the US right now. And I think they're a terrible precedent >> because if you think about what prior administrations might have invested in, you know, I mean, it ranges from the most insane to beyond the most insane. >> So, so as a precedent for the way government works, it's terrible. >> Yeah. >> But the these particular investments are fantastic. Well, also just the defense implications mean that they'll try and do this as a starting point in nationalizing the whole thing >> which would be bad. >> I mean, if we have massive quantum computational capability in the hands of private companies, will that ultimately need to be a national asset? >> I think there could be a national reserve just like we have an oil strategic oil reserve. You can have a national compute reserve of quantum without having to own these companies. I agree with Salem and Dave. It is a the history of picking winners by governments is a horrific history. >> It's bad because actually often they turn out to be bad government but also because it's just not it it restricts innovation and the unleashing of entrepreneurial spirit. >> Well, it's completely inconsistent too. You have no idea what's going to happen just a couple years from now could completely invert course in a democracy. completely invert course so no one can predict the future is it's terrible to have that inside the government. >> Not that democracy is working that well right now. So that's a whole other point for another podcast. >> This morning we just saw Nvidia hit a $5 trillion valuation. >> Welcome to the first $5 trillion company. >> Crazy. >> Uh I close this out with your predictions on uh what other industries are going to hit a $5 trillion mark here. Uh Jack, >> well the energy sector, uh you're going to see right now Aram Ramco sitting at 1.8 trillion of market cap. If a Ramco and other oil companies uh energy companies take hold of compute the way they could in the next 3 to 5 years, uh it's going to take a little longer than Nvidia, but you could see a $5 trillion energy company if they're taking hold. Because when you think energy, think of all the things around energy. In the case of Aramco, they have their unit called Sabic, which is a chemicals producer. Uh, in the case of Exxon Mobile, they are an integrated chemicals producer as well. So, Exxon could be that company. A Ramco could be that company. Could be three or five of them. It really depends on whether the energy companies go beyond thinking about themselves just as energy and go into the compute to think about the future of the products coming out of those energy products. That will create$5 trillion in energy. >> Dr. Dr. Alexer Gross is constantly saying on the podcast on Moonshots, we're going to tile the Earth with compute and that's inevitable. Uh, as fast as we can create chips and as fast as we can find energy, we're going to be building compute. And that'll be true for the whole future of humanity starting starting with this >> until we until we break down all the planets and and create >> and create a Dyson swarm around our planet. >> Exactly. Dyson Dyson sphere. >> But anything Dyson directly in that value chain >> is going to be a multi- trillion dollar opportunity. Salem, >> I call the question irrelevant because once you have abundant energy, the whole economy becomes meaningless. We're divided by five trillion. Yeah. >> 5 trillion. >> I call BS on the whole question. >> All right, ladies and gentlemen, give it up for our moonshot mates here. >> Thank you. Thank you, Peter. >> Every week, my team and I study the top 10 technology meta trends that will transform industries over the decade ahead. I cover trends ranging from humanoid robotics, AGI, and quantum computing to transport, energy, longevity, and more. There's no fluff, only the most important stuff that matters, that impacts our lives, our companies, and our careers. If you want me to share these meta trends with you, I write a newsletter twice a week, sending it out as a short two-minute read via email. And if you want to discover the most important metat trends 10 years before anyone else, this report's for you. Readers include founders and CEOs from the world's most disruptive companies and entrepreneurs building the world's most disruptive tech. It's not for you if you don't want to be informed about what's coming, why it matters, and how you can benefit from it. To subscribe for free, go to demandis.com/metrends to gain access to the trends 10 years before anyone else. All right, now back to this episode.