# Money After AI Digital Dollar Stablecoins

Published: 2025-10-16

There's a lot of conversation going on around the world, a lot of chatter about the potential of the US losing its position as the global reserve currency. >> What can the United States do about it and that's where stable coins come in? >> Jeremy is here. He's co-founder and CEO of Circle. We think that the world needs a full reserve banking system. We we we think that the world needs much safer base layer money and that's what stable coins represent. When you deposit, say a million dollars into a bank, what happens? >> They're borrowing a dollar from you and then they're permitted to lend it out 12 times. >> That's insane. >> That's what fractional reserve banking is. One of the motivations for starting Circle was, okay, is there a way to have full reserve payment system money separated from lending money? We could construct that on the internet, actually. And in fact, it's totally necessary on the internet. >> Money is about to go from static to supercharged. You've talked to lots of central bankers. Are they even aware about what's coming? >> The really smart people are like, "Oh my god." >> Now that's a moonshot, ladies and gentlemen. >> Everybody, welcome to Moonshots. I'm here with my moonshot mates, Salem Ismael and Immad Mustach. I'm Peter Diamandis, and today a special guest, uh, a new friend, someone I hope to have in my life for many decades to come. Jeremy Olair. He's best known as the co-founder, chairman, and CEO of Circle, the company behind the stable coin USDC. By the numbers, USDC has market cap of $76 billion, over 90% year-on-year growth, and this past summer did an IPO and raised a billion dollars. Welcome, Jeremy. It's a pleasure. >> Thank you, Peter. I'm psyched to hang out with you guys. >> Yeah. This I like to call what you've done at Circle an overnight success after 12 years of hard work. Yes. >> So, let me let me let me set the goal here for our our listeners. So, the way our banking system works today is kind of insane when you look at it and I hope to dissect that with you at the end of the podcast today. My hope is that our listeners are going to understand why stable coins on the blockchain are the future of money, the future of payments and transactions. And while stable coins, while they're safer, they're also more ethical and operate internet speeds. And finally, I want to discuss why America needs stable coins. So, does that sound good to you? >> Yeah, absolutely. And I think we can we can bridge off of that into a lot of adjacencies as well that hopefully will be uh you know build on that too. >> I I think we should begin with a definition on stable coins and USDC. >> Do you want to take a shot or should I? >> I I'm happy to. Yeah, I'm happy to. I I I've been thinking about this a long time. uh and and the semantics of of all this. So, um look, uh there there there are a lot of things that call themselves stable coins. And so, what I what I don't want to do is try and describe the entire topology of of things that that are stable in name only or or or or whatnot. And so, I'm going to use a more narrow definition and and actually that narrow definition is now uh really being enshrined in law all around the world. So the major governments of the world are actually enshrining this definition of stable coins and law as they codify this as a form of legal electronic money in in the global financial system. So I'm going to use that narrower definition. So in our conception, a stable coin is a representation of a fiat denominated currency such as a dollar, a euro, R&amp;B, yen, etc. It is a representation of a fiat denominated currency as a cryptocurrency. So operating on the internet as a on on public networks on these public internet networks colloqually you know known as blockchain networks. So operating on these public networks and they're notable in that they are they're not just denominated in fiat. They are actually fully backed and fully reserved by such fiat currency. And there's a lot of nuance in there which we can get into, but fundamentally it is a uh backed one for one so that when you have one of these stable coins, >> well a they're stable um meaning that you can always create them or redeem them for the unit, a dollar, a euro, etc. So you always have that one for one creation and redemption and the and so therefore the the mechanism by which you get the stability is that full reserve. So, they're they're they're designed to be very safe, safer than commercial bank money uh uh forms of digital currency, but that then operate on the public internet and inherit all of the public internet's superpowers, which we've all come to love, which is openness, interoperability, global reach, programmability, uh you know, you know, with marginal costs of moving things that approach zero and move at the speed of the internet. So, that is that is what stable coins are. And the the the legal term in the United States under recently passed federal law is what is called a payment stable coin. Meaning it's good for payment. It's money good to settle a transaction. Basically, every week my team and I study the top 10 technology metat trends that will transform industries over the decade ahead. I cover trends ranging from humanoid robotics, AGI, and quantum computing to transport, energy, longevity, and more. There's no fluff. only the most important stuff that matters that impacts our lives, our companies, and our careers. If you want me to share these meta trends with you, I write a newsletter twice a week, sending it out as a short two-minute read via email. And if you want to discover the most important metat trends 10 years before anyone else, this report's for you. Readers include founders and CEOs from the world's most disruptive companies and entrepreneurs building the world's most disruptive tech. It's not for you if you don't want to be informed about what's coming, why it matters, and how you can benefit from it. To subscribe for free, go to dmmandis.com/tatrends to gain access to the trends 10 years before anyone else. All right, now back to this episode. I appreciate that and you probably did a better job than I could have. Uh, what I'd like to do one second is open with this question. You know, there's a lot of conversation going on around the world, a lot of chatter about the potential of the US losing its position as the global reserve currency. Uh especially as China, India and Russia are getting together. Uh my question is, do you think that stable coins could help play a role in maintaining the US the US dominance as a global reserve currency and and stabilize that and back that in some fashion? >> Yeah. So I I think that um you know uh currencies uh have network effects uh and they have network effects from their their adoption and utility and they have network effects from their liquidity. Um and the dollar uh you know basically got plugged into the payment systems of the world after World War II. um and be and and became sort of a a required uh settlement asset uh for trade >> and um and and therefore it gained enormous liquidity and so that liquidity and that kind of um network utility kind of was has been very strong. Um and so that's been sort of the basis uh of the dollar for a long time. But then a after 1971 something profound happened which I think we all know about which is uh the the fiat currency the dollar which kind of had a consensus uh global consensus behind it. It was somewhat imposed because the US kind of won World War II but somewhat imposed. Um the the the dollar uh you know it deped from gold is one way to think about it. So it had been a gold back a goldbacked currency and sort of it was kind of considered credibly neutral as a result. Uh you know you had kind of you had the gold there and then the dollar was this sort of unit of account and governments kind of maintained their own pegs to the dollar which implicitly meant they were pegged to some amount of gold. And because of ballooning deficits in the 1960s, because of the war that was being waged in Vietnam, uh Richard Nixon uh sort of said, "Okay, well, we we we we no longer have the money, so we don't have we don't have it. We don't have it." And so we're going to break and we're going to create a governmentissued money by fiat. It was just we say it's the money. Uh so fiat currency uh which goes way back historically the concept of fiat but fiat currency is a a relatively recent phenomenon. Most of monetary history was commoditybacked in some way. There are lots of examples of deethering from that no pun intended but um the you know you you have this break and um and and then the the currency basically became about the full faith in credit. this this phrase we know it's the full faith and credit >> and battleships and armed forces. >> Yes. Full faith and credit and and yes and the and the sovereign sovereign power and sovereign creditworthiness. >> For most countries it's sovereign creditworthiness like whether you buy an Argentinian bond or South African bond doesn't have to do with their military. It has to do with the the the the creditworthiness of the government. And so I think you know there's been uh these shifts globally as you as you referenced in geoeconomic powers and and arguably rising hard power as well and we've seen that hard power exercised like the Russian invasion of of Ukraine. you know, we see hard power exercised in other places, but but you you you've had this question for some time, which has been on people's minds, and it in particular became exacerbated after Russia invaded Ukraine and the United States government basically went to all the the utilities that are part of the dollar network, the actual like these are like software utilities like Swift is a software utility. It's a messaging standard that broadcast messages around the world and it's it's who has access to that messaging protocol is who has access to settle money and not only did they kind of intervene in that the US government intervened in that it it also like grabbed things from you know basically put a lock on database records which is really what you know if someone holds T bills >> or holds there is you're you're you're getting your your read access has been blocked right so read access was blocked for Russia uh to a whole bunch of stuff. And so that freaked people out. It like really freaked people out. It was like, wait a minute, this dependable consensus-based international system where full faith and credit is okay. There's some question marks about that. And then at the same time, we've been in a world where there's these uh you talk about exponential tech, we could talk about exponential debt. Uh we've had exponenting debt. and exponenting debt is like a real issue and so the Bitcoin adherence and and you know I happen to be a Bitcoin inherent adherent as well. You know are looking at like sovereign debt uh as a real issue and so the full faith and credit part becomes challenging and so all of this has kind of combined uh into asking this bigger question of is the role of the dollar waning? If you read the 500year history by Ray Dalio, he'll tell you it is, etc. Right? So, you can kind of look at this from some of these angles, debt super cycles, the geoeconomics, geopolitical environment, etc. And all of this kind of comes back to your question, which is um what can the United States do about it, right? I mean, there's the obvious stuff, which is is become more neutral or or or less intentional in terms of control. That's a that's a that's a policy choice. it can have less debt. Uh and and that does not seem to be a politically viable choice in the United States right now. As you guys talk about all the time, we're going to have like insane levels of GDP output from AI and we're just going to basically grow our way out of it, right? That's one one philosophy. We're going to grow our way out of it. And so therefore, don't be worried about the the the the debt and so you keep buying US treasuries because they're going to be good in 10 years because we're going to be so productive in 10 years. And then but then there's this other question which is well wait a minute like there isn't an alternative right there's a lot of noise about alternatives there's like noise about bricks and and noise about bricks currencies but you know the trade settlement in dollars is still 60ome percent even higher maybe as high as 80%. And so the question is as well is there something that the United States can do that can support demand for US treasuries and support continue to strengthen the network effects that it already has. And so that's where the internet comes in, right? We've we've um and that's where stable coins come in. And you know the the the US famously liberalized and commercialized the internet and exported software utilities made principally by American companies everywhere in the world on the public internet. And I think the question is now, you know, similar like with AI foundation models or with with internet financial infrastructure like stablecoin financial infrastructure, blockchain infrastructure, can the United States uh uh kind of create a a a liberal free market competitive regulatory regime and export all of this globally and cement its role not just in the AI arms race, but in the in the in this financial utility arms race. And that's effectively what the policy position of the US government is right now. That is what the Genius Act represents. And so you know the the the fundamental argument is well let's just make dollars have higher utility by allowing them to kind of compete on the basis of free circulating digital currency on the internet and let's let technologydriven companies be the primary IP generators innovators to kind of continue to evolve these open software stacks to to to kind of lead this and that would essentially continue to protect if you will >> bolster and bolster the US dollar. So that's a long-winded answer, but I think it's important framing this. Do you want to jump in? >> I have a specific question for you which I'm I'm seeing a vector here which could be very exciting, but is USDC exclusively backed by T bills or are there other assets and how are how do you back it today? Yeah. So, USDC is uh I would argue and Circle itself is sort of the most, you know, one of the most transparent financial institutions that's ever been created. If if you go to I don't know what bank you use, you don't need to tell me, but let's say you bank with Chase or Wells Fargo or I don't know what you bank with, right? If you went and said, "I want a real-time view or a daily view into every instrument that backs the fractional reserve loans that is is relates to the dollar obligations that you have to me like you're not going to get that." And in fact, if the if the Fed and Treasury said to the bank, we want to see all that. They couldn't put that together for you. Like the books and records are hard and auditors are just sampling data to get the audits done. So what we've done is we've constructed a model where uh essentially 90% of what backs USDC at any given time sometimes it's 85 sometimes it's 93 but let's just call it approximating 90% is in a structure which we call the circle reserve fund which we created um in in collaboration with black rockck and effectively what it does is it creates a publicly listed uh structure called USDX XX. You can do a little Google search or whatever and it'll bring you to a page on Black Rockck and you can look inside that daily and you can see every single instrument that's there. And what you'll find in that 90% is it's primarily uh short duration US government treasury bonds. So there is it's it's all you know 90 days or less. But an average duration you could probably tell me because it tells you in real time on there. I haven't looked at it, but sometimes it's 10 days, 13 days, 14 days, like a very very short duration averages. Uh, and it's um treasury overcolateralized repo, which for those that aren't familiar, that is essentially uh giant banks uh take cash from they borrow cash from us overnight. So, we give them our cash and then they give us more than that amount of cash in T bills. So we have over collateralized overnight obligations from banks and so if the bank can't pay us back we have the T bills we're good and it's overcolateralized. So it's sort of it's it's sort of all what I'll call fundamentally shortterm government obligation risk and then you also see in there there's cash and you can see in there where the cash is all the cash that's in that fund is with Bank of New York Melon. Bank of New York Melon. All they do is they do a lot of things. I don't want to I don't want to diminish, but they are like the the biggest custodian of cash. They have this incredible infrastructure. They they custody $44 trillion of assets. So you have >> they're known as the banker's bank. >> They're known as the banker's bank. So we bank with the banker's bank. And then the other 10% about 98% of that 10% is held with bankers banks. uh meaning like you know the the the DNY melons of the world, the states of the world, companies like that and then we have a little bit which we basically position around the world in also highquality banks but also with a little bit with fintech banks to provide kind of immediate liquidity so that if I'm in in Singapore or I'm in Brazil and I want to create a USDC from a local a local bank, I can do that basically 24/7. And so that's that's that's what is actually there. And so the the that's somewhat of a long answer, but the short answer is it's T bills. It's what's called, you know, Treasury repo and it's and it's cash. And now, you know, and and we, by the way, uh despite uh people saying unregulated, all that sort of stuff. Obviously, there's a Genius Act, but there's we we're also under a framework imposed by the the the most intense regulator of Wall Street, which is actually the New York Department of Financial Services, who has a set of of specified assets that we are only allowed to hold that. So, we have to hold ourselves to the to the Wall Street regulator. I've been watching Circle for kind of since its founding, and I got to hand it to you. >> You should as a founder. Well, the sheer perseverance you've had to navigate all of this regulatory bureaucracy. This is like Nobel Prize winning stuff. >> By the way, that was that was that was what made this exciting to me. I mean, >> Jeremy, what did you put the chances at at founding day that you'd get to today? Honestly, would you >> I didn't really think I I don't think I mean I don't think probabilistically because you can't you can't do that as a founder. Like it's it's all or nothing, right? uh you know you have this conviction, you have a vision, you see what you're you want to do, you know it's possible and then you just fight like hell uh uh to to to realize it like that is >> you create the future. That's that's that's mission. Um and so like that's how how I thought it but I I did want to say to your comment like uh like I built internet software companies, platform infrastructure companies, nothing at this scale. Um but I originally had had studied kind of global political economy, international political economy. My academic background was was was not uh computer science or or technical finance or anything like that. And when I kind of looked at this problem space uh really almost 13 years ago, I uh I was like, man, in order to actually realize the ideas, it's going to require changing global policy and then having that global policy kind of get cemented by the major governments of the world. And I thought to myself, that sounds really hard. That sounds extremely hard. And I'm up for doing something really hard at this stage in my career because I think you know I think with a lot of these exponential tech like it changes society and it changes the rules and it changes what's possible and you got to change laws because if you don't you can't do the thing. Um these adaptations require that and so it's actually very motivating to me. >> So but you did you built the tech you built the tech first and didn't change the policy first. I think that is something critically important, right? You you built >> well, a little bit of both. A little bit of both, right? Because like you know, actually I was um I was just doing a session at the annual meeting of the World Bank and the IMF just today. I'm in DC and um you know 12 years ago almost to the day it was November uh I I was I was asked I was called to testify to the US Senate about this issue of like can virtual currencies as they were called back then can can they exist what's the innovation potential etc and I was advocating hard for policy at that point and I would say while we built the tech uh you know Before I I put a single dollar in the company, before my investors put a single dollar in the company, I hired the very best regulatory policy advisors in the world to basically help me figure out how are we going to do this? Like h how how are we what what's the thread we can pull to to do this in a legal way, in a compliant way? And and we figured that out. But what that meant though is that while maybe there weren't stable coin regulations because stable coins didn't really exist, there was a body of law around payment systems, electronic money, all these things. And what it meant is that to do what we needed to do, we had to be constantly working with policy makers, working with regulators, collaborating with them at every moment. And I think that posture has never changed and it continues, you know, to this day as >> you couldn't have made it otherwise, right? Because you're otherwise it's so easy for them to go, wait a minute, he's trying to act like a central bank. This enough of this and slam the door on you. >> Emma, do you want to jump in? >> Yeah. No, I think it's amazing what you've kind of done over the years, perseverance, especially through the dark times. And now it's really interesting cuz the regulation tailwind is there, but then also you've got AI agents literally hitting right now who are possibly the biggest users of AI and stable coins ever >> and you guys have been doing great work with X402 and SDKs and things like that. >> I'm really curious, >> how much of your volume do you reckon in 5 years is going to be AI versus humans? >> Interesting. Yeah, you know, I think about this a lot and and um just for a little bit of historical context, you know, the the really inspiring thing when when you Sean and I were co-founding the company, Sean Neville's co-founder, when we were we we were co-founding the company um back in 2013 is what got us really excited was this idea of programmable money. >> And um you know, it was it was just an idea on napkins, so to speak, back then. There were some papers that some really in really really incredible people had put out about smart contracts. Um and I got very excited that these blockchain networks could become like distributed compute engines and um and that you know I I had worked on virtual machines, programming languages. I'd worked on application infrastructure, built some of the most popular app servers in the early days of the internet. And I was very excited about this idea of of these kind of um uh uh trust machines, these distributed compute engines that could provide cryptographically verifiable compute outputs and inputs and data and transactions. Like that was like the bomb. That was like oh man. If we have that like we could actually move economic activity in a broaderbased sense, not just moving point value from point A to point B, but like economic activity more broadly. We could actually move that onto the internet and we could reconceptualize all the building blocks of the economic system. And like that's what motivated us. And so like the first thing we we were like, okay, well, we got to get a protocol for dollars on the internet going cuz like we got to get that going. And we need these we need these networks to become compute engines where we could actually build a protocol layer that's like a application utility layer. And like we got that five years in with Ethereum. And so we got this going. We got the legal going. We got the technology going. We wired it up to the financial system. But that was like the super primitive first ideas that we had. And so we're now now those are coming now those are coming around. And and to your question, so I'm going to answer it, which is I think the vast majority of stable coin transactions are going to be AI intermediated in five years. And I think we're we're entering a period where economic operating systems are being created. And these the these layer 1 blockchain networks uh are are are are becoming economic operating systems. They're designed to contain economic activity, provable data, transactions, and compute that is necessary for entities that face each other in a trustless way. That could be AI agents that face each other and need proving systems basically to to prove identity, yes, but to prove inputs and outputs and other things. And they need to be globally interoperable. It needs to be if there's an AI agent, you know, spun up out of somewhere in Asia and there's an AI agent spun up from wherever. I mean where is sort of all relative anyway but like the the these these agents that are increasingly agents with capital are are conducting work. Maybe they're bringing in humans. Maybe humans are bringing them in. It's both ways but like the intermediation on that has to happen on an infrastructure like this. Like there's no infrastructure there's no other infrastructure not having over like credit card networks right. So it's it's happening on this kind of infrastructure because it needs to be highly scalable from microtransactions uh which is you know we just released a toolkit for microtransactions with X4 >> by way I love microtransactions I mean talk about the number of times I've wanted to just donate small amounts you know >> yeah I mean >> yeah it's like it's scalable I I use the metaphor like um uh you know like email SNPP does not care about the payload right if I send you a picture an email with a with an attachment of picture of my breakfast and you send me an email back with like a copy of a CIA dossier like the payload is is clearly different but they're both 100 bytes or whatever it is right so the payload's the same the same thing with stablecoin money right I can settle a 5-cent transaction on a high performance layer 1 blockchain in a fraction of a second and that 5-cent transaction might be very useful for you know paying for a few you know AI tokens or whatever it And on the other hand, like I can settle a billion dollar transaction, which is like a like I just bought whatever gazillion barrels of oil and I'm settling that transaction in a safe way on the internet. So very scalable models. Um so I I I'm a big believer in um this this convergence between uh AI AI agents and >> this is the missing financial layer that the internet never had. It was about data and images and video, but it was missing >> the whole financial a we sort of like patched together this >> maybe trustable credit card capabilities that you know is my credit card safe but >> right >> this is I mean I don't know it it feels like we're about to see a hyper you know hyper exponential growth uh across the board. Iman you were going to ask a second part of your question I think. Uh, no. I was just um kind of thinking you actually kind of launched Circle before Ethereum and this all came together even. >> Yeah. >> And then now it's kind of moved on and like it feels like we're going beyond smart contracts because money will actually get intelligent. Smart contracts can be a bit dumb sometimes. >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, yeah. I mean like there's sort of offchain and onchain, right? Like what what what what's what's uh what's you know off-chain compute which arguably will be a lot of AI. uh you know you you you still need proving grounds right you you need you need you need these proving grounds uh for the off-chain compute and and that's where I think the the blockchain networks as kind of economic coordination layers can be very very powerful um and and that's certainly how we how we think about it but when we founded the company like um you know the concept of like internet of things and AI and blockchains like that was talked about but there was we were AI was was you nowhere. I mean, it was it was moving along, you know, just like blockchain's been moving along and like and people were like, "Yeah, isn't that disrespected before coins or whatever?" Yeah. No. Yeah, we had that. We had that. Um Yeah. So, you had you had these things and I'm a big believer and I I know you are too, Peter, of when you know kind of um when you have uh multiple uh exponential technologies that compound each other, right? That's where Yeah. the conver convergent forces. I think that's one of the be the most important things that a tech entrepreneur can do is sort of business and new business models that come out of that. >> Yes. Right. >> 100%. >> So Jeremy, I've heard you talk about two scenarios which show how absolutely inane and uh antiquated our financial system is. And I I would love you to just do it in brief for for everybody all of our listeners to really get this. When you look at how a brokerage, how you invest in stocks through a brokerage, compare that today to what it could be and then how banks actually work. When you deposit, say a million dollars into a bank, what happens? Can you cover those two and and talk about like, you know, when you stop and realize like really that's the way it works? That's insane. >> I think that a lot of people don't understand. I mean they do viscerally uh because they get nervous when they give their money to anyone. Uh but but like you know we've heard about bank runs like what is a bank run? Well a bank run is because the business model of a bank is to take a dollar to borrow a dollar from you. They're borrowing a dollar from you and then they're permitted to lend it out 12 times. >> That's insane. >> That's what fractional reserve banking is. And I have been a adherent since the founding of this company and I continue to be an adherent today of the idea that you can have a separation of money and credit and that you can have full reserve money where if I give you a dollar, I'm not allowed to do anything with it. It's a dollar and I can build a a super hyperefficient payment system on that extremely lowrisk form of money. And then if you want to borrow money, it's got to be borrowing on that full reserve money. So >> can I can I drill in on that just for a second? This I think is one of the most admiral aspects of circle where each dollar is fully uh collateral >> fully reserved, >> right? >> Um that's not the case with say Tether or some of the other coins. What made you had you make that choice? Because that's a very principled choice uh that costs a lot. So something had you made that kind of uh principle and go we're sticking by that. I'd love to hear the history of that. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean there's there's a short easy answer and then there's a slightly longer uh like fuller answer uh that expresses the the real thing. The short easy answer is we're required to by law. So when we when we built USDC like we're regulated under what are called money transmission statutes and money transmission statutes are federal law which guide how electronic money transmission works and then each state in the United States has a license that you get for being what is called a money service business. It's essentially a a bank that takes money and moves money but can't lend money. So it is a narrow uh a narrow uh focus and so in the historical realm that was Western Union and then that later became you know PayPal and Apple Pay and like all these things and like lots of lots of the fintexs are actually money transmitters. So we were we were regulated under money transmission law and let's say we go to the state of I don't know where where do you live Seline? New York, New Jersey, >> wherever. You're in a place. Okay, you're in a place. You're in a state. The state has a banking regulator. And the banking regulator, we have to go state by state and say, "Okay, we'd like a license to operate in your state." And they say, "Okay, here it is. You got to post some bonds that are like collateral." And then you have to basically back your electronic money instrument with a a permissible set of investments, what are called the permissible investment clauses, which are these super narrow. they're designed to be hyperlquid uh you know kind of kind of uh uh assets and so that is to to have that that instrument be as safe as possible. So that's like the legal short legal answer but the other is more philosophical which relates to the discussion we were just having and the you know one of the motivations for starting circle was I got very interested in the nature of of money the nature of of banking and the nature of the monetary system after the great financial crisis and I studied it and you know stuff I already knew like if if you had ever watched it a wonderful life and you know like wow these bank runs but like the the the GFC was like a totally different scale. I mean, it was like all this opacity at like all these like levered up instruments like what the what the >> And and I just and I looked at that and there were ideas bouncing around as there as there have been from time to time for okay, is there a way to have full reserve payment system money separated from lending money? And that that that idea came up again after the great financial crisis. And it stuck with me and and it sort of really occurred to me that a more a sound what I kind of consider a more sound money basis for the banking system makes a lot of sense and I thought when I started circle with Sean it's like well actually we could construct that on the internet actually and in fact it's it's it's totally necessary on the internet like you don't want like these IUs floating around free floating moving around on the internet that's like a recipe for total disaster. And so it's almost like okay well we have to design this this way. And so as we move from like the early regulations like the money transmission laws into stable coin laws that sort of deal with this at a at a deeper level as a this is a defined form of money in the financial system level like that that kind of reserve model became paramount and it went from an operating reality for us into kind of federal law uh as well. Um, you know, I made a list of all the people you must have threatened along the way, right? Which were competing stable coin folks, the big tech and financial payment systems like PayPal, uh, the banks and especially the some of the smaller banks, the regulators and monetary authorities, the Fed, the the payment intermediaries like Visa and others, uh, firms giving credit and lending, um, incumbents in the fiat banking system. I mean, you had to navigate all of that. Um, >> I'm still navigating it. >> Doesn't the Federal Reserve kind of go, "Wait a minute, he's acting like a central bank shut him down." Don't Don't you get that response? And how have you navigated that? >> So, a couple things uh on that. I've had a chance to spend a lot of time with the leaders of many of the biggest central banks in the world. Uh, just in the past, you know, couple weeks uh uh and and I share the stage with the head of the World Bank of the IMF. Now, they're not central bankers, but they look over like big big big things. I think um uh one thing really important is that a stable coin, a a a regulated stable coin inherits the monetary policy of the central bank. It does not replace it. Like we do not set interest rates on money. We do not establish the price of money. uh you know nor do we create money like a central bank can create money as I like to say they have the they have the SQL insert statement capability in their in their database uh >> you can do it you can do it once >> you can do it once >> well yes but not even once I can copy I can copy uh uh copy once basically right um and and so we do not create money um nor do we set the price of money and so um you know nor nor do we replace the central bank's uh core uh core settlement ledger for at an absolute level for that fiat currency. So we kind of uh augment uh that with an internet uh infrastructure that is makes that particular currency super useful more useful than I think it it has been before and we inherit from the monetary policy. So if the price of money is increasing or the price of money is decreasing the behavior of of of of markets adjusts accordingly but we don't have any role in that. We are we are um we are what I call a kind of macrocyclical macro sensitive business like banks in that sense but we don't actually we don't we don't we're not involved. I don't go to the rate setting meetings. So I think probably some probably some listeners are wondering why don't the central banks issue their own digital currencies and the Trump administration said that's a bad idea. Why? And the other part is what happens with the Genius Act when JP Morgan and others say hey we can do a stable coin too. Like how do you see all that playing out? >> Yeah, it's a great it's a great question. So um if you you probably remember uh back in 2018 2019 there was a proposal for something which were collocally referred to as ZuckBucks >> uh that uh that that came out and and so what's interesting is that you know we launched USDC in 2018 we we published our white paper in 2017 and then that was uh kind of conceptually introduced in 2019 and you know we were like a little little guy, right? Uh and there was 500 million USDC in circulation, but like Facebook was like, "Oh my god, they have three billion users." Like all the governments in the world were like freaking out. Um and you know, there's probably good reason for good reason. >> Yeah. Right. And and I think the other the other challenge was like Zuck were actually like synthetic money that were going to be like based on a whole bunch of currencies and they thought like, "Oh, the world's ready for that." uh and it turned out like a lot of governments were very uncomfortable with that idea. So that was like a wakeup call and and the result of that wakeup call was that certain governments notably first the Chinese said we cannot allow private money to kind of kind of come and sweep over the world right so we're going to respond by building a central bank digital currency and c and research into central bank digital currencies like skyrocketed the Atlantic Council I think talked about there are 122 governments researching central bank digital currencies. >> But China actually had begun work on this and I and I met the founders of it back in 2014. >> I I met them in Beijing and and and then that that project which was sort of a laboratory project was like okay we got to ship >> uh and when the Chinese decide to ship they ship and so um that launched what is now known as ECNY. And it's a really interesting lesson because the Chinese government is a very powerful government. I think you know we we all think about the Chinese government as a as a centrallyun government that can just tell people what to do and they'll do it. Well, in fact, it's not the case. Uh it's not the case. Um and that product got launched in 20 it got launched over two years ago. Uh and no one uses it like no one wants to use it. And there's there's it's interesting, you know, no one wants to use it. They made every payment app, every bank, everyone had to have ECNY. Why? Why didn't people use it? It's because in my view, uh, people want the most innovative product. People want to use the thing that has the most utility for them. And guess what? Alip pay and WeChat pay just have more utility. M >> it's like this is like and it's private sector innovation like I can walk into a store and I can go up to the counter and they can say you know do you want to buy this and I yeah I want to buy this and it voice authenticates me and I walk out and that's like a feature of Alipe and WeChat okay is that a feature that the central government's going to build private sector innovation technology and software innovation is like is all you know you may have government funding etc but it's it's like fundamentally uh uh entrepreneurship it's why you know we're sitting here on moonshots right entrepreneurship is so key and I think even in a place where the government can say you have to have this you have to support this people didn't want to use it and so what's actually happened is this has become somewhat of a spiritual uh philosophical maybe not spiritual philosophical debate and it it is a debate between the government being in your pocketbook directly and having direct access to your money and your behavior and the choices you make directly like I'm like piped right into the government's database or is there an air gap between me and the government and today like 97% or so of the of the of the financial transactions we have are intermediated by private third party intermediaries. That is that is the way it works today. And if you go back over say even 75 years in the west in the liberal market order like every major te technology innovation in money has come from the private sector. you know, that was like check checks and check clearing and ATMs and credit cards and debit cards and then like PayPal and and then Apple Pay and then stable coins and like all this innovation comes from, you know, many times uh consortiums of actors getting together and saying, "Hey, we're going to build we're going to build this new technical utility and we're going to agree on it and people are going to use it and and and so I think in in the United States Uh there's hostility, there's just outright hostility to this concept that the government's going to build all this for us. >> And and so, you know, I think the Trump administration essentially banned it. Uh so there's like nothing going on here. In Europe, the central bank is pushing forward with a digital euro project, but the but but the banks are very resistant to it. The actual commercial banks are very resistant to it because they're like, "Hey, you're going to disintermediate me." But at the same time, the Europeans have passed stable coin laws and now the banks and others and circle um are are doing Euro stable coins. The estimated launch date for a CBDC in Europe is 2029. And I don't know if they're gonna have again if that's going to slip or or what, but like if you're saying it's 2029, >> so by the time we get to >> defeating itself, >> I mean, so I you know, I think that the this sort of like, hey, we're going to take a bet on open-source, open internet, software, innovation, entrepreneurship, competitive markets, and and a fair playing field. I think it's a winning bet. So I think the US is the winning bet right now. But it does come to the other part of your question Ahmad which is like hey aren't these okay okay well JP Morgan other guys are going to come in and um I I I think a couple things I think you know one is that um you know for a commercial bank the the the sort of creating a new under the Genius Act a commercial bank is actually banned from issuing a stable coin. Why is that? because you wouldn't want a stable coin backed by risky deposits and risky loans. And so, but a bank holding company, a company that owns a bank can also create a stable coin subsidiary and issue a stable coin. And then the guys running that are going to say, "Okay, I have this money I can get over here where I can lend it out 12 times and I capture more margin or I have this thing I can't do anything with." and and it and its ultimate promise is commoditization of payments in to where the payments are priced at zero, right? So, there's sort of a structural thing there, but it still may be that the that the um that banks actually want the payment system utility benefits. They want the programmability of money. They want to offer their corporate and institutional clients this innovation. And we actually see huge opportunities to partner with banks. And we are you you'll see more and more of that. But we're partnering with banks where they're like, well, we can just kind of convert in and out of the stable coin for its for its utility on the internet, but then preserve our deposits and lending. And so you're seeing some hybridization happen. Um, so but but I think nonetheless though, like there's going to be a lot more competition. There's going to be a lot more competition um in in this space. And I think my my best reference is that stable coins are internet platform utilities and networks and they have developerdriven flywheels and network effects and they have liquidity driven flywheels and network effects and those are those are significant competitive moes. We have those moes but we're not sitting still cuz like there's so many people who see like this is a huge multi- trillion dollar opportunity. >> So Jeremy, this has been an incredible moonshot that you've effectively achieved your first goals of a decade ago. um looking 10 years out and speaking to the entrepreneurs who are you know our subscribers on moonshots what should they be thinking about where's you know where are the massive untapped opportunities that you're excited about seeing >> yeah you know it it touches on something we were we were talking about earlier um which is well first of all I think we're in the super early stages in all this like this is super early stage >> um and you I I like to think about it as uh in through a couple of lenses. The um like the total addressable market of of the the global financial system is like you know I don't know what it is. It's like hundreds of trillions of dollars. It's like this enormous thing and like the revenue streams of all the intermediaries is you know 10 trillion dollars. It's like this huge thing, right? And and like I think just like earlier epics of the internet where kind of open internet infrastructure and open software kind of collided with industries, restructured the product utility, restructured the unit economics, built a better a better way to approach it and unlocked completely new things that weren't possible before. Those kinds of things happen over 10 or 20 years. They take they take longer than people think. We might be in an acceleration environment because of AI that may that may come in but it's we we still they still take these long arcs but even after these long arcs even after 10 or 20 years the the the platform businesses that get built are trillion dollar companies >> but they still represent a a small percentage of of the equivalent uh of the of the prior regime. Right? the viewing hours of broadcast terrestrial cable satellite are still far in excess of people who watch streaming even though we're like what >> you were you were in you were in the digital media world right and there's so many great analogies between old media >> uh and today's media world and stable coins and yeah please >> I use I like to I like to say uh over the top internet money it's like over the top you know video >> this episode is brought to you by Blitzy autonomous software development With infinite code context, Blitzy uses thousands of specialized AI agents that think for hours to understand enterprise scale code bases with millions of lines of code. Engineers start every development sprint with the Blitzy platform, bringing in their development requirements. The Blitzy platform provides a plan, then generates and pre-ompiles code for each task. Blitzy delivers 80% or more of the development work autonomously while providing a guide for the final 20% of human development work required to complete the sprint. Enterprises are achieving a 5x engineering velocity increase when incorporating Blitzy as their preIDE development tool, pairing it with their coding co-pilot of choice to bring an AI native SDLC into their org. Ready to 5x your engineering velocity? Visit blitzy.com to schedule a demo and start building with Blitzy today. >> You were going down, you know, you and I have talked about the idea of a the future of the corporation, >> which I think is is very cool for entrepreneurs to be thinking about uh and we'll be talking more about that in the in the weeks ahead. But do you mind sort of giving a yeah >> a vision statement there? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So I was I was I want to share that which is I I my my first point is it's early days um and and so I think for entrepreneurs and people who are thinking about what what can they do with this technology like it's super early. I think the second is that um you know we're we're at the front end of a new operating system paradigm and I and I you know we go through these operating these kind of platform shifts uh every you know per every so often like the web was a platform shift away from personal computers. It was it was a platform shift in terms of information. We we've had you know platform shifts in terms of communications utilities and social media social messaging. We've had platform shifts in terms of going from desktop to mobile from you know from data centers to cloud blah blah blah right so we have these platform shifts and I think we're we're we're there's two operating system kind of platform shifts happening right now. One is AI foundation models which are effectively new operating systems. Uh, and I I think they they they are compute engines. You write apps that they like and they they execute they execute tasks and they're far more capable operating systems than we've ever had before. So that's one incredible platform shift. And the other are these economic operating systems which are you know purpose-built blockchain networks and and these these economic operating systems are another platform shift and I think with that you you you know just like with other platforms you get a new set of material to work with like with the iPhone you had the GPS and you had the the touchcreen and you had you know other the camera right so you had you had new facilities to work with >> and so you're getting these new facilities to work with with e with with these economic operating systems, these these blockchain networks, you're you're getting the ability to have like provable executable contracts that can be deployed and intermediated on the internet. You're getting the ability to have kind of provable tamperresistant data structures that can be can be interacted with. And so it creates a substrate where you for example could take conceptually what is a corporation and you could actually implement that entirely in software as a mixture of humans and agents and and and and so like you could form the capital by selling tokens. Uh the token capital can be stored in a treasury that's on chain and that treasury could be mostly stable coins. You can automate all of the monetary flows on that. You can have the governance which is like stakeholder participation. Who decides what to do with the treasury? Who decides what contracts to enter into or manifest can be the governance layer with provable voting entirely done on chain. The entire audit of the books and records and everything that happens is real-time auditable. You can use view keys and other things to kind of create selective disclosure models. And so you can create, you know, onchain governance, onchain decision-making. You can have that entity delegate work to AI. You can have it delegate work to humans. You can have the actual contract between the AI and the entity manifesting code. You can have the contract between the humans manifesting code. And you can you can you can build all that like that's available. You can actually do this. >> It's coming. See, it's like the premise of Dows without the governance issues. >> Well, yeah. So I mean Dows I think are fascinating because they're they're an experimental uh experimental thing. But I think uh I I um I you know I've studied sort of uh you know 400 years of the development of say the joint stock corporation that then became modern capital markets that then became modern banking and and and the the emergence of of of corporations as organizing entities and and then all of this is tied up in I I think about this a lot. uh it's tied up in theories of capital and capital and you know the industrial revolution was all about like capital and labor and it was you know Adam Smith versus Karl Marx and what is the ultimate relationship of labor to capital but now like that's being disrupted right because uh uh capital can have a relationship to machines and machine labor and not human labor and this is deeper philosophical questions for society but those are real things and what in this world that we're moving into like I think it's the first time since the kind of corporations, joint stock corporations, the governance models that we have where we can revisit all that. We can actually revisit all that. >> Jeremy, you're describing the first fully onchain corporation, right? Where contracts, payments, treasury, governance, >> agents, even robots are on the blockchain >> developing products and services and delivering them. >> Yes. >> 100%. Yes. And we do need laws. We need laws. We actually we actually have to have enforcement. Like that's the other thing. We still need prisons >> for the humans that do bad things. We still we still need we still need we still have people who do not meet their commercial obligations and you need to be able to sue them and go after their assets. Like there are certain things we absolutely need. So like that like we're we're not uh there's there's no AI court uh uh which is probably a good thing right now >> but the velocity >> the velocity of those companies is going to be is so explosive that I'm not sure any corporation can compete. So is there a hard takeoff in the future of corporations in that capacity? >> Yeah. So that's that's what I think I I think I I don't know what the time frame is but I think given exponential uh improvements in AI uh and given this technology substrate I think we will and we we already have like the single founder company phenomenon right which is sort of an AIdriven phenomenon right and actually you have onchain uh kind of onchain organizations >> I mean I mean the the best recent example is something called hyperlquid >> and hyperlquid is a software protocol Okay, it is just a it is a set of smart contracts that exists on the public internet. Okay, it's open source. It's a it's a protocol. It has a token and there there's stakeholder economics for the people who created it, the people who uh who who govern and make choices and make improvement decisions on the protocol itself and then the protocol itself generates fee revenue from the use of the protocol. Now it's a specific protocol that is focused on futures like structuring futures markets >> perpetual decks if I remember right. Right. >> It's yes it's a it's a perpetual derivatives uh uh exchange protocol but it's actually now like an underlying infrastructure where you can instantiate it for other things. You could create a perpetual for you know sports betting. You could create a perpetual for anything that you want a perpetual future on. uh you could have a perpetual futures market on AI compute whatever you know whatever you could imagine right so they've kind of created this thing where you can instantiate on it and that instantiation deres revenue now that entire protocol and that entire infrastructure has been built delivered and operated by 10 people 11 people 11 people it's doing well over a billion dollars of revenue right now it's a billion dollars of revenue now that revenue is actually being returned turn to the token holders and the stakeholders which is getting more people to pile in and build on it. So it's creating compounding network effects for the protocol itself. And I think that um you know these kinds of of uh you know digital tokenbased incentive systems combined with AI work AI workers and human workers and these kind of new systems of of governance that are possible on these networks that are highly globalized will create kind of super predator corporations if you will that are that are that are that are you know a hybrid of humans and AIs. and we'll we'll make things um they'll make physical things and they'll make services and I think that >> they'll drive the bankruptcy lawyers business forward. >> Well, I mean it's definitely going to keep the lawyers uh >> which will also be AIS by the way. >> Um so I have a quick I have a quick >> I always want to hear EOD's views on these things but go ahead Sim but we'll go to >> No, go ahead. Let's hear from I've got a a thought. I don't know. I just think it's going to be fantastic. Like the the US hasn't recovered in monetary velocity since co, right? Yeah. Basically what you're describing and I think this is why you're building ARC your own L1 and things like that as well. >> Money is about to go from static to supercharged. >> Yes. >> And the thing that I'm like most fascinated about like I've been working on new economic theory and things like that. >> How are you've talked to lots of central bankers. Are they even ready for that pick up in monetary velocity because that impacts inflation if you don't have output impact? >> That's a rhetorical question by the way from you. >> Are they even aware about what's coming? >> I'm I'm telling them I'm telling them and I think uh the really smart people and I'm not going to name names. The really smart people are like oh my god. >> I mean so this this you're exactly right. I think you're exactly right. like monetary theory it like the the money velocity uh and monetary theory are going to get upended. Uh and and I think you know one of the risks of course is that you know people throw up the gates right and say you know no >> and and and I think um I think the fact that currently right now the United States is not throwing up the gates. The United States is saying no we're going to we're going to let this we're going to let this grow. Similar situation with AI right? You know people can throw up the gates. You can throw up the gates or you can you can have prudent uh uh regulation and kind of what I call agile policym which is an oxymoron but you know agile policym because it will there are going to be these these these things that are that are profound and I think the concern of course if for people who've studied recent financial crises is you know it was the liberalization of derivatives regimes that arguably allowed for the these toxic balance sheets develop that then led to the blowups behind the the great financial crisis, right? So there's an argument to be made, you know, and that also had to do with just sort of inherent opacity in the system. And so one of my first principles is that and blockchains are are really good at this is radical transparency and cryptographic proving are like again part of the new toolbox. What's what's different? You have this new material to work with cryptographic proofs and and that allows for real-time auditability. it allows for a lot of things that weren't possible. And so I think you know probably like in other areas um you know the the um uh uh the the governments are going to governments are going to need technology people to be writing software to deal with some of this stuff as well. M >> one of my community members u Jerry Mcowski is famous for saying abundance equals scarcity minus trust >> and and something you've done profoundly well is allow create structures for scaling trust >> and this is going to help us get to where we want to go. I think that's really really powerful. Um, just a comment back to the core future of the corporation when I'm advising CEOs and Peter and I both doing a lot of this right now. What we're saying is basically create a a digital twin with everything being AI native and digital native with smart contracts running most of your operations and put the entire company on chain driven by II and essentially that's going to replace the mother ship with all these people at headquarters bean counters and policy makers and product strategy people. Um and if you're not doing that somebody else is doing that to you and you have a choice and it's a really simple discussion. >> I think that's right. I think that's right and I I would say 100% and you know now I'm like a New York Stock Exchange listed public company and and so like uh like I have a lot I have a lot of uh embedded infrastructure obligations that are there for a good reason. Uh and so I'm not that agile startup. Uh I can't just like poof I'm on chain. Um uh so I think um the road for for for larger companies that are that have these larger systems of of of of regulation on them is a it's a it's a different road. Um, but I think that the the basic advice I agree with and I think um the, you know, the there are still open legal questions on a lot of stuff and um and and the tooling is not quite there yet on some of this stuff like to do everything like put all your operations in smart contracts like it's still it's still like it's still hard. Um but I you know I if I if I look at kind of the progression of things it's going to become easier and easier and easier uh you know in in in the coming years. Um and and now that people are starting to conceptualize this like there's going to be people really going after it and there's a tools market to to to to develop here as well. >> Huge eman. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I think um so it's all kind of you're launching your own L1 arc and there were two really interesting things kind of picking up on Sem's thing about transparency and trust. >> One is that on the one hand it's going to be super fast like subsecond finality. >> On the other side there's refundability. Like I just got some stable coins today and I was like where are they? And they're like oh we sent USDT instead of USDC. And I was like USDC all the time obviously. So I just kind of wondered >> how is that balance there? like how did you come up with the requirement for finality but then the ability to reverse transactions as well like what was the behind that? So, so actually there's a there's a little bit of misreporting that you probably that you probably picked up on which is that um so fundamental is is sort of deterministic settlement finality as fast as possible as cheap as possible right so that's that's like a fundamental thing and that is core >> and that's important not just for moving a dollar that's important to like the who who owns the house or uh who owns the stock or did did the contract complete its its execution, right? All all these things sort of provable final state is like essential. Uh and so that's there. Now what you you have to think about is like okay now now I have other things like I have a I I have an issued uh I have an issued asset that's a protocol USDC and that's there and I know that circle is a regulated centralized issuer but it it sort of works on the public internet but circle because it's a regulated centralized issuer um you know has to follow sanctions law so if uh if if an entity is sanctioned like we actually have to freeze that that account and we do that on like 28 blockchains, not just Spark, but on 28 blockchains. That is that is a hard law requirement. Okay. >> Um and and so that's there, but but then you sort of say, okay, well, I want to start using this in in retail transactions, like I want to buy a cup of coffee with this or or more more realistically, I want to buy a product on the internet that someone's going to send to me. Um and and there um all of a sudden there's other things you need like you need metadata. You need other data alongside the cash. Uh that data could be the invoice or the receipt. That data could be other other other relevant metadata. So for example, we are adding a native uh protocol called reibo is what we call it. But it's essentially like an ISO data messaging protocol that is is useful. It's like a useful thing for for metadata alongside the actual bearer asset, the the the the monetary asset. And then what we've also done is we've created and this is just in R&amp;D right now. We haven't published it. We've created something called the refund protocol. >> And so the idea is not that the blockchain itself is reversible. No, the blockchain is not reversible. It's not that USDC is reversible. No, USDC transactions are final unless they're sanctioned. Okay, so that's just a thing. and and then above that you create a uh uh essentially you can create a payment protocol that supports a refund and and that's experimental right now but the the concept is that if I do buy the product and it was fraudulent or I do buy the product and I don't like it was the wrong product it was this shitty thing I bought and it's broken it like came with the whatever it was you need the ability to have >> a a way to return value on the basis of whether it's fraud or just a customer choice choice. And so refund protocols is just a proposed protocol. It's not actually built into the blockchain. It's a it's a higher level protocol. And we've proposed an insurance pool model so that people can stand in in the transactions and basically buy effectively buy the insurance and and sell the risk. And so you effectively have a market for the risk of refunds that anyone could participate in. And so you create a a global decentralized market for risk of refunds. And so that's that's actually what we are proposing. We are not proposing a blockchain that reverses transactions. We are not proposing that USDC reverses transactions. We're we're working on these higher level things that are think important at an application layer uh for ultimate commerce. Right. >> Jerry, take it home for me one second. When am I buying things on Amazon or Starbucks with USDC? Where is it right now? What is the average user listening today using USDC for? and what will they a year from now? >> Yeah. So, it's interesting like um you USDC is widely used around the world um and it's used in you know by people and and businesses in hundreds of countries and obviously it got its start as a as a digital cash for investing and trading and as working capital with the digital asset markets. That was what I called the bootstrap utility. uh 24/7 365 markets need 24/7 365 money and and and naturally that that emerged um that morphed into you know innovators that are building onchain uh uh protocols for financial products so borrowing and lending protocols things like these these uh uh derivatives protocols and so USDC has become capital in borrowing and lending but what's really happened in particular over the last couple of years is we've seen this really strong growth in its use in crossber transactions, international transactions. Uh, and there are so many companies now that build products in payroll and payouts and B2B payments and others adding in the stable coin rail because it's just a a more efficient medium to to settle transactions into markets around the world. And that relates to another major use case which is as a store of value. So this gets back to your dollar question which is actually people want dollars. People want to hold dollars and in huge parts of the enormous parts of the world, they'd rather hold a digital dollar that has internet utility than hold a local bank dollar or a local bank currency. And so there sort of this is over the top again, like it's when people figured out, oh, I can use WhatsApp instead of paying SMS fees with my local carrier. And so there's sort of this over top phenomenon and that's proliferating. And so you're getting users and that's cascading into small businesses who are figuring it out because they don't have big compliance departments. And so you're you're sort of seeing this happen um around the world. And so by virtue of that, that is not you're walking into Starbucks. Uh you can there's plenty of uh what I call USDC debit cards. So Visa and Mastercard have wired up to USDC. So if I'm an issuer and my card is actually the money I have is USDC, you can actually use that USDC to pay at a merchant just but it's the same payment rails. It's the Visa Rail, it's the Apple Pay, but the actual settlement between the person who gave you that card and Visa is done using USDC. Uh, which is kind of cool. But, um, I think my my view is that the kind of retail commerce uh, I mean, you've got Shopify just rolled out USDC for all their sellers and it's like it's just there. It just shows up and they're incentivizing merchants with like they'll pay the merchant 50 basis points to accept a payment in USDC. So that's coming online this quarter. I don't know what that's going to do. Uh Stripe has rolled out USDC as a payment method that's available out of the box to any any merchant, but the the usage in e-commerce is still very very small. And I think that um we still have there's still work to do on the user experience. There's still work to do getting more and more what I'll just call like mainstream wallets to have this integrated in a simple seamless way. And we need things like the refund protocol. We need we need other pieces there >> so that um like some of the user expectations can be met. And that's why I think it's still a couple years away from kind of wide widespread use. >> You haven't had your pizza day yet equivalent. >> I mean there's lots of transactions happening uh that are that are that are there are lots of retail transactions happening. There's lots of every kind of transaction happening. People buying digital goods. Sure. People buying you know other other things. And and actually there's a lot of huge transactions happening too. The biggest electronic trading firms in the world use USDC to settle multiundred million dollar transactions with some frequency. And so you know it has all that. Um but I you know I think there's areas from a UX and ultimate um distribution perspective that there's still there's still work that's really >> So let's move it up from the consumer to the CFO. We have a lot of corporate CFO CEOs who are on this podcast. uh you know 5 years from now you're running a multinational organization um is is USDC sort of the internet rails of all your transactions to all of your stores around the world? >> Yeah, I mean we we we believe that sort of onchain treasury management is going to become a huge thing. Um there are also again lots of companies, lots of startups, lots of fintech that are already in this space that are baking USDC into what they do. It's actually a fast growing startup area and established companies like Brex just launched USDC as a as a feature for people you know I you're seeing um you know you know spinouts from the big ERP systems like SAP building like onchain treasury solutions. So I think um yes the ability to move money uh to move money from you know a tokenized money market into stable coin cash to settle transactions programmatically instantly anywhere in the world across geographies is very powerful and you know it's sort of time value of money capital efficiency um auditability there's a lot of really really powerful things there um and I think the the regulatory clarity that's coming online is is is sort of been one of the missing pieces until you have you know USDC is treated as a cash or cash equivalent instrument on a balance sheet that an auditor can say what it is and you have the the regulatory backing that this is actually legal electronic money from a payment system perspective uh and you have the tooling and the enterprise infrastructure that's all kind of coming online right now and so if I look a year out and then two years out and you know certainly 5 years out that curve I think on that kind of what's happening with with onchain treasury is is is one of the most exciting areas of of this space what you thinking >> um how do you compare with tether what are the big differences >> you know I mean I think te tether has actually built an extraordinary business um and obviously have have uh they're larger than us so they're they're a good bit larger than us And I think, you know, they they really had a lot of their core strength come from the critical role that they played in offshore crypto markets. I mean, it was actually, you know, kind of birthed out of one of the offshore Asian exchanges, Bitfinex. Uh, and then obviously other big Asian exchanges adopted it because they didn't have dollar banking. Uh, and a lot of them were Chinese firms and and so they needed to kind of create a way to have a kind of form of dollar banking. So they got bootstrapped in that and they're still very strong there. And so USDC has grown a lot in these digital asset markets on a on a percentage basis in terms of what's happening in those markets, but they're still super super strong there. And so their growth is is is strongly supported inside of that space. Um, I would say, you know, we've also, you know, I think philosophically our our outlook, I don't know if it's different entirely, but we've always been rooted in this idea that we're building a new internet financial system. We need to do this in the regulated realm. We need to we need to enshrine this in law. We need to work with polic. We we've been we've been US first and we've been, you know, kind of regulatory first and we've built a very strong compliance apparatus and that's allowed us to work with some of the biggest banks in the world, some of the biggest asset managers in the world, some of the work with the biggest governments in the world. So those are things that we've done and I think our view is that when we talked about that TAM earlier, this multiundred trillion dollar TAM uh that's out there and and then the TAM just in the revenue streams of of what runs through all that um like that's still on the come no one no one's no one's no one's no one's uh no one's really kind of gone into that. And so I'm I'm comfortable and confident that continuing to do what we do the way we do it is going to lead to uh you know continued growth. That's what that's what I obviously believe and I think that this is a market that will support many significant platforms as well and and look I mean yeah >> you've definitely taken the road less traveled on that one. Um I'm going to guess that the Genius Act is generally a great tailwind for you. Am I right? My question is what did you do to celebrate when the Genius hack got got passed? >> You know, it's pretty pretty amazing. Um uh really I did, you know, I had been, you know, sort of working on getting a federal law uh for for stable coins for like four plus years, five years explicitly where there was actually a bill being discussed and then, you know, conceptually for much longer. Um uh and yeah, it was a a pretty pretty uh extraordinary moment. I think um I uh yeah, my kids were in summer camp and so my wife and I uh I think I think we I don't know what we did. We had a good we had we had we had fun. I was in DC. I went to the signing ceremony and uh and and that was that was that was pretty powerful. Um but I think it is yeah to to the question yeah it is um it is a tailwind um because I think it it it starts to build that certainty around what is this form of money how is it treated how can if I'm a mainstream corporation or I'm a or I'm another financial institution like I now have the confidence that I can start to use this and build on this and that's that's huge and it also is recognized around the world I mean right now my team are like the in explainers and chief of Genius Act to governments all around the world who are like okay what is this what does this mean you know and sort of >> should we be doing this and then also like if you're a Genius Act compliant stable coin like how do we treat you in our financial system just like they they all support dollars in their financial system how do they treat this >> in their financial system and so there's there's it's really causing that and um and those are you know those are good Um those are those are good backdrops. Um but is as as Immod noted earlier, right, it's invited so much more interest, so much more competition. You know, I you know, I wouldn't be surprised to see, you know, a new stable coin every week uh that that's introduced. >> It's purportedly purportedly Genius Act compliant even though Genius Act is not yet statutory in in effect for a while. But >> I'm going to create a competitor you called Square. No, I'm just kidding. been taken to leave already. >> So So >> did you hear circle circle and square merged and formed hexagon? >> That was that was an April Fool's joke one day. >> Okay. So Immod and Jeremy question for you. It's 10 years from now. We've got digital super intelligence. Um you know way beyond our current conception and there's a trillion agents running around and these agents have buying authority. they have access to uh to stable coins. Um I mean is that a viable option a decade from now? Is that how is that going to be even uh conceivable in today's regulatory structures? Uh and what's that going to what kind of a hyper hyper exponential is that going to cause us and how exciting is that future? Immad you first. Yeah, look, I think that's a super exciting future. I think you know with stable coins and the work you've done at Circle, it's always like why would you want dumb money if you can have smart money, right? >> And obviously the agents will want smart money and they will direct it to where is most economically valuable. >> So the goal of regulation shouldn't be to stifle innovation. Like earlier Jeremy was talking about the Chinese and the DC that turned into ECNY. I was a hedge fund manager back then and 10 cent and Alibaba had Alip Pay and WeChat pay. They enforced reserve regulations on them cuz the money was going around. This was before the digital one. >> Yeah. >> And they basically said you have to give us all the interest. >> So there's a trillion one there where unlike you putting it into really high quality US bills and things like that, >> they just lost billions of dollars a year >> because of regulation. And then a lot of the Chinese payment regulation slowed down. So if I look forward 10 years, what's happening is they're finding the most economically valuable things. And again, we need to define the value to end users. They're using smart and then intelligent money on optimized rails to move that around. And then you have a self-balancing self-driving economy. If we get it right, if we get the regulations wrong and there's going to be this competition to adopt it because money will flow where money is liquid. So if Europe doesn't adopt this and other countries don't, it will come to the US which has the regulation. Then I think that's a world of abundance because we'll finally be allocating stuff where it matters as opposed to now most of the money just sits there. Dumb. >> I I I I like that perspective. I I definitely I definitely share that view. I think there are um you know there there is such a thing as a control function uh you know in in in corporations. And so I I think the interesting question is is and regul regul regulators mostly what they do is check that you have a control function that's functioning actually like that that that's actually they're like show me your policy on this show me your policy on that and they'll get a third party auditor to come in and perform a sock two audit to make sure that what you said you do you actually do and so controls are really important and so I think one of the things that that we we need to work towards is Um, ho how do we how do we have provable controls in an AI intermediated system both human in the loop and agentic uh provable controls, auditable controls uh and and get you know policy and regulation to deal with these kind of proving grounds again for control mechanisms and we actually just launched uh an open source project called secure tool which actually is a is a uh a wrapper on open AI SD SDKs for agents that specifically uh enables uh the ability to insert control functions into monetary transactions that agents would conduct specifically to deal with this issue of wait a minute like I I'm not just going to like delegate that the agent can just party on with this wallet like I'm going to I'm going to actually I'm going to want like the API to have a permissioning structure for the AI itself. Now that's just one like example that we've crafted and I think like that's again it's a whole tool entire tool chains can get built up in this area and and again I think it's probably the innovators the builders the tool developers the software creators that are going to figure this out by necessity before like you know the the you know the the regulatory bodies but I I do think um to achieve that hyper velocity which I do think is an incredible uh world of of output and and capability building and wealth creation and prosperity like we we have to we have to kind of figure out what are the control functions and that's obviously an issue with unbounded AI as well right control functions societal control functions etc so it's not unique to financial it it relates to like interaction with critical systems and all that kind of stuff too >> if we get it right the future's going to be amazing >> I remember I remember Jeff Booth saying once that uh what what reason he was excited about Bitcoin was that it gives you money velocity without debt. And I think what you've achieved with USDC is the same thing. You have money velocity without the issuing debt, which is >> Exactly. >> It's a first principle. Yep. >> Oh, Jeremy, um I know that your your 10-year vision, your founding vision, if I have it correct, was raise global prosperity through the frictionless exchange of value, build safer and more inclusive financial systems uh on a sort of an internet financial system. and and you've done that. Uh I'd love to close with like what's your vision a decade from now? Is do you have a new founding mission a decade from now? >> Well, I actually feel like we're we're we're still at the front end of of of realizing that that that mission. Um and and and I think um you know I I talked to my team about this and I just had a leadership gathering and talked to my team about this and sort of looked out uh a little bit and and and described some of the things that we talked about here which I it's really rewarding to talk about here as well which is you know what what what what is what is the nature what are the nature of corporate forms? What is the impact of this the side of >> Can I Can I share our secret that we're maybe talking about an X-P prize on this topic? >> It's an interesting idea. That's for sure. Uh it's definitely an interesting idea. I I think um I mean look the so I I think we're early and I ultimately I want to see like I mean you could argue like uh uh data center and and and GPU and energy spend has contributed all the GDP growth in the US this year. So arguably at least GDP output has increased because of AI this year. Okay. uh now now converting that into other output is like the obviously the thing that everyone's focused on. I want to see at some point that the the the the economic infrastructure that we're helping create and the economic velocity that is actually going to be measurable because it's all measurable on chain. I want to see measurable increases in economic velocity that actually lead to measurable increases in global GDP and prosperity. And I'm not going to be happy until I I can actually see that and measure that. And that's, you know, that's we're not there. We're not we're not there. We're not even close to there right now. Uh and so, you know, that that animates uh my my work. Uh as I think about the >> in the early days when you digitize system systems, there's deceptive growth that eventually becomes disruptive growth and it dematerializes, demonetizes, and democratizes the world. So, >> I love it. >> Congratulations, Jeremy, on that. Uh where do we find you on the worldwide web? Your uh what's your handles? >> Yeah, so uh be best is uh is Jerelair on X.com and um yeah, that's like that's my public handle and then otherwise you can check out what I'm working on at circle.com. >> Amazing. Immod uh and Salem and and Jeremy, we're going to all see each other in uh in Riad in about 10 days time at >> FIT. Yeah, it's gonna be fun. See, how's your weekend? >> I need some USDC for you to sign, Jeremy. >> Okay, that's I can I can I can like do a s I can use a digital signature. >> Iman, how's your week ahead, buddy? >> Uh, the work always continues, buddy. >> I reach you. >> You know, it's so funny. I get I get a text from Immod at at like six o'clock at night and I go, "Where are you?" He goes, "I'm in London." And you're still awake. Cuz I'm always awake. >> Oh, well. Amazing. >> That's good. >> All right, guys. Gentlemen, a real pleasure and uh folks for excited for USDC and for the world that Circle is creating. Thank you. It's going to spawn a million new entrepreneurs, probably, you know, 100 million new entrepreneurs and make the world faster. >> Huge congrats on everything. Just incredible. >> Thank you. It's been a lot of fun. Thank you guys so much. >> Thank you so much. Every week, my team and I study the top 10 technology meta trends that will transform industries over the decade ahead. I cover trends ranging from humanoid robotics, AGI, and quantum computing to transport, energy, longevity, and more. There's no fluff, only the most important stuff that matters, that impacts our lives, our companies, and our careers. If you want me to share these meta trends with you, I write a newsletter twice a week, sending it out as a short two-minute read via email. And if you want to discover the most important meta trends 10 years before anyone else, this report's for you. Readers include founders and CEOs from the world's most disruptive companies and entrepreneurs building the world's most disruptive tech. It's not for you if you don't want to be informed about what's coming, why it matters, and how you can benefit from it. To subscribe for free, go to dmmandis.com/tatrends to gain access to the trends 10 years before anyone else. All right, now back to this episode. [Music]