# BMAD V3 Orchestrating Agent Is Live Setup and Fullstack Coding Demo

Published: 2025-05-24

<b>Hey everybody, Brian here and welcome to BMad</b> <b>Code. What an amazing week this has been in tech</b> <b>and there has been amazing releases from Google,</b> <b>Anthropic, OpenAI, Sonnet 4 came out. But there's</b> <b>one other game changer that came out earlier</b> <b>this week that probably flew under everybody's radar</b> <b>and that is the BMad Agent is live and ready</b> <b>for action. So I'm going to be sharing with you</b> <b>all the amazing updates in the BMad method, V3,</b> <b>and how you can put it into practice right now.</b> <b>It's simplified and it is super powerful. This</b> <b>is a revolutionary update. It is a mind-blowing</b> <b>experience. Perfect time to start using the</b> <b>BMad method. The BMad method has gone through</b> <b>some drastic changes, but first let's talk about</b> <b>why does vibe coding fail. First of all, you just</b> <b>get the agent where you build your project halfway</b> <b>through, you get to a certain point and it's just</b> <b>going to start going off the rails and doing</b> <b>dumb things. And even with the better coding agents,</b> <b>the more complex your project gets, the harder</b> <b>it's going to be for the agent to stay on the rails.</b> <b>Resources get wasted. If you do not optimize</b> <b>and plan ahead, you're going to be burning credits</b> <b>and burning monies. If we don't give the agents</b> <b>the right information, they're not going to know</b> <b>what to do. You're going to see agents putting</b> <b>files in random places you don't expect and they're</b> <b>not going to remember where they did it, maybe</b> <b>just steps before. What do you do when you're</b> <b>halfway through a project, you're working on</b> <b>your MVP, maybe you finished almost all of your</b> <b>epics and then you forgot a major feature or you</b> <b>realize you need to do a big change. Well, in the</b> <b>past, that has been a real pain to recover</b> <b>from, but now the BMad method will actually support</b> <b>change recovery. And then finally, failing to</b> <b>plan. If you fail to plan, you are planning to fail</b> <b>and that is what the BMad method is about.</b> <b>It is going to help you brainstorm your idea,</b> <b>plan it and put it into motion so the</b> <b>developer agents can work from beginning to end.</b> <b>Why has the BMad method evolved? I started</b> <b>with vibe coding, but you get so far and we</b> <b>just talked about all of the problems that you</b> <b>run into. So from vibe coding, I started using a lot</b> <b>of cursor rules and I started to learn that you</b> <b>can create documents that help keep your agents</b> <b>on the rail and it was still fragile and it was</b> <b>unoptimized. So I came up with the idea of creating</b> <b>agile personas that work as custom modes. There</b> <b>was issues with the V1 method, one of them being</b> <b>each agent was hard coded to the task at hand</b> <b>and it was very hard to optimize them and customize</b> <b>them as people would like to do. So V2 was really</b> <b>about four main things. Optimizing and utilizing</b> <b>the web, taking a lot of the work of building</b> <b>this planning out of the IDE, saving so much time,</b> <b>effort and money, taking the power of deep</b> <b>research from the web to really investigate</b> <b>better ways of doing things. But the two</b> <b>key innovations in V2, I think were checklists</b> <b>and templates. By having templates, we can now</b> <b>define exactly what our PRD would look like in</b> <b>define exactly what our PRD</b> <b>or Architecture would</b> <b>look like in a separate file. We were not having</b> <b>to modify the agent because we had a separate</b> <b>template file and also the agents were trained</b> <b>to work section by section. So the agents work</b> <b>with us, explaining to us, working back and forth</b> <b>with us to produce really clear documents. But</b> <b>still, V2 was complex in that it was difficult</b> <b>to set up all of these agents and there was</b> <b>challenges with each different IDE and web</b> <b>platform. If you wanted to use some of my</b> <b>larger agents that worked really well in Gemini Gems,</b> <b>it might not work in the custom GPT without</b> <b>drastically reducing the file. So that's why</b> <b>we led to version three. Version three fully</b> <b>optimized this so you would not have to have</b> <b>these bloated files that you would upload and</b> <b>create. Instead, the agent files themselves and</b> <b>the agent definitions got smaller and they got</b> <b>optimized by uploading separate files to augment</b> <b>them. And now they work perfectly with Gemini</b> <b>Gems and chat GPT. But the other big innovation</b> <b>of V3 is full customization and a new Uber</b> <b>AI orchestration agent I call the BMad Agent,</b> <b>which is really the most exciting thing that</b> <b>I have seen in a long time.</b> <b>piece of V3. The BMad Agent really is your</b> <b>ultimate AI orchestration partner. This BMad</b> <b>Agent coordinates as your method coach and</b> <b>it organizes your whole entire AI Agile team,</b> <b>dynamically adapting to become the one Agile</b> <b>agent that you need right now. Product manager,</b> <b>Scrum Master, Product Owner (PO). And you can also define those agents now in V3 to have the exact</b> <b>tasks that you want them to have. But how do we</b> <b>really get from idea to implementation with the</b> <b>full agent flow in the BMad method? If you have</b> <b>a seed of an idea, maybe you want to get something</b> <b>out in the market, you're not exactly sure</b> <b>what it is, you're going to first talk to the BMad</b> <b>Agent. And the BMad Agent is going to</b> <b>suggest that you do brainstorming with the business</b> <b>analyst coach. It is going to help you form it</b> <b>into a conceptual product brief. But it's also</b> <b>going to help you do deep research if you</b> <b>want. It is going to help you look for competition,</b> <b>see what they're doing, look for competing</b> <b>products or just similar products to maybe help</b> <b>you figure out what is unique about your idea so</b> <b>you can get something out in the market that is</b> <b>truly interesting. And then hand that off to the</b> <b>product manager. Now if you're using the power of</b> <b>Gemini 2.5 in the web, which I highly recommend,</b> <b>you can run most of these agents now all in the</b> <b>same chat thread. You no longer have to export a</b> <b>document, re-import it into a new chat. So your</b> <b>agents are going to be able to virtually pass</b> <b>around your brainstorming, your PRD brief that</b> <b>we just talked about, over to the product</b> <b>manager who's going to help you elicit and define a</b> <b>beautiful product requirements document that is</b> <b>going to have all of your high level epics and</b> <b>stories worked through in an order that makes the</b> <b>most sense for the developer agents to build your</b> <b>project on the rails perfectly in the right</b> <b>execution order. That is going to be virtually</b> <b>handed off if you have a front end to the</b> <b>UI-UX design architect. This is a specialized agent</b> <b>that does three different things. It can help</b> <b>you create a prompt for V0 or Lovable that is</b> <b>going to build a UI basically in a one shot for</b> <b>your whole front end application with all of the</b> <b>knowledge of the full PRD, MVP, and the</b> <b>architecture. The design architect also will help you just</b> <b>figure out what the UX and UI spec is. It's</b> <b>going to ask you questions. It's going to have you</b> <b>detail what types of themes and colors you want</b> <b>or you can upload images, but it is going to help</b> <b>distill that down to a very clear document that</b> <b>the build will be able to follow later on to build</b> <b>the UI of your dream, but not just a generic</b> <b>looking admin UI, but really a UI that encapsulates</b> <b>exactly what you're trying to imagine in your head</b> <b>and get actually on the screen. So it doesn't look</b> <b>like just some generic vibe coded crap that</b> <b>everybody else is putting out there. This will</b> <b>help you create your unique artistic visual</b> <b>vision. The application architect is really going</b> <b>to look at all of the MVP requirements of the PRD.</b> <b>It's been passed virtually in memory. It is going</b> <b>to look at all of that and then it is going to</b> <b>look at all of those epics and stories and it is</b> <b>going to make sure that it creates the source</b> <b>tree and the architecture decisions that will make</b> <b>sense to fully build out the PRD. If you are an</b> <b>expert and already know what design and architecture</b> <b>you want to do and what technology choices you</b> <b>want, you can actually also feed in a document</b> <b>that has your preferences for coding</b> <b>standards, design patterns, or technology choices. The</b> <b>architecture will take all of that into account,</b> <b>see what fits, and it is trained to either accept</b> <b>those, talk to you about them, or offer</b> <b>alternatives. But you might not know those things. You might be</b> <b>a beginner. You might not even know what language</b> <b>you want to use. In this architecture engine and</b> <b>even going back to the previous agents, they're</b> <b>going to work with you, understand the level and</b> <b>where you're coming from, and help you learn and</b> <b>understand and choose the right technology choices.</b> <b>It's going to show you trade-offs. It's going to</b> <b>explain to you why it shows one thing over another</b> <b>thing. It's going to help you also make sure</b> <b>that the agent is really thinking through things and</b> <b>giving you the best possible options. It's then</b> <b>going to pass this off to the product owner, just</b> <b>like we had before, but this is not combined</b> <b>with the Scrum Master anymore. The product owner</b> <b>has one job when we're in the web flow, and it's</b> <b>one of the most important jobs. It is going to look</b> <b>at the architecture, the PRD, and the output</b> <b>from the design analyst or the design architect,</b> <b>and it is going to run through a masterful</b> <b>checklist that really makes sure that everything</b> <b>works together and everything is updated. Once we're done with the product owner,</b> <b>that's where we probably have all of our</b> <b>artifacts and we're ready to put it into the IDE.</b> <b>The Scrum Master or the product owner in the IDE</b> <b>will run a document sharding task. This will give</b> <b>the agents the intelligence to produce the high</b> <b>level detailed lower level stories with tasks and</b> <b>subtasks, and the artifacts that the developer</b> <b>needs to implement your stories perfectly. Then,</b> <b>of course, we have our developer agents. These</b> <b>are the workhorses that are going to be taking</b> <b>our granular, very detailed user stories. I'm</b> <b>going to show you an example of some of the user</b> <b>stories, just how detailed they are, that</b> <b>are guaranteed to keep your agents on the rail,</b> <b>putting things in the right place,</b> <b>following the right protocols, and more importantly,</b> <b>not requiring the creation of tons of rules to</b> <b>keep it on the rails. It's going to basically know</b> <b>everything it needs just from the user story and</b> <b>the details that the Scrum Master puts in it from</b> <b>all of the sharded artifacts. As I mentioned,</b> <b>there is now a task and an agent that can help</b> <b>you with course correction. So if you're halfway</b> <b>through your MVP and you realize there's something</b> <b>you want to add in, or you want to change</b> <b>course, or maybe you want to throw out one database for</b> <b>another database, it's a huge change, the</b> <b>course correction agent is going to work with you,</b> <b>figure out what the best approach is. Do you have</b> <b>to go back to the beginning? Do you have to throw</b> <b>away a few stories? Is there a way to pivot in</b> <b>the sand and move forward? It will also help you</b> <b>update all of the artifacts you need to, all of</b> <b>the future remaining stories, add new stories that</b> <b>you need, so you can get back on track quickly.</b> <b>It will help you do that. It's amazing. This is a</b> <b>brand new feature of the V3 BMad method. In V2, I</b> <b>mentioned that we had templates. In V2, we had a</b> <b>checklist. The PM, the architect, the design</b> <b>architect, the PO, and the Scrum Master. After</b> <b>they do anything, they will run these detailed</b> <b>checklists. It forces the LLMs to further deeper</b> <b>think about what they've done and reassess</b> <b>everything. But what is the change for V3 that</b> <b>really gives us the ultimate customization?</b> <b>Well, furthermore, instead of just having the roles</b> <b>tied to what actions they can do, we've now</b> <b>split out the personas so you can make them creative,</b> <b>you can customize them how you want.</b> <b>Additionally, we've split out tasks. If you wanted to do the</b> <b>course correction task, you could do that just</b> <b>by pulling in the task. But by having all these</b> <b>pieces, we can also now fully customize the BMad</b> <b>agent to be able to have whatever agents, tasks,</b> <b>checklists, and personas that we want. We can also now customize multiple developer</b> <b>agents that are specialized to the front end</b> <b>or the back end that have their own specialties</b> <b>and can help you master certain languages,</b> <b>certain frameworks, or be an expert in front end or back</b> <b>end and really focused on that specialty. And</b> <b>it does make a big difference when you do that.</b> <b>This new feature in V3 is advanced</b> <b>reflective elicitation and brainstorming actions.</b> <b>What that really means is when you go through</b> <b>critical pieces of your document, whether you're</b> <b>working through the PRD or the architecture, as</b> <b>you're reviewing each section, it's then going</b> <b>to give you eight options. And the first seven</b> <b>options are basically going to allow you to tell</b> <b>the agent to do different things, to self-reflect on</b> <b>itself or improve things. Critical self-reflection,</b> <b>user goal alignment. This is going to force the</b> <b>agent to really reflect, is it meeting the goals</b> <b>of the overall project? Could it have done</b> <b>something differently? Generate and evaluate</b> <b>alternative design solutions. So what this is</b> <b>going to do is this is going to force the agent</b> <b>to look at what it told you and present two or</b> <b>three possible alternatives. And then it's going</b> <b>to have to either defend what it chose and tell</b> <b>you why it chose it or potentially choose one of</b> <b>these other ones and also give you some options</b> <b>to help you really understand its thought process,</b> <b>but also forcing the agent to further think</b> <b>about how it got to where it did. Also, there's user</b> <b>journey and integration or interaction stress</b> <b>testing. And then finally, we have the deep dive</b> <b>into design assumptions. We really challenge the</b> <b>agent to think about hidden constraints that could</b> <b>impact the development success. I'm going to show</b> <b>you how easy it is to set this up and install it</b> <b>now. It is so easy compared to the way it used to</b> <b>be. And you can start experiencing the magic with</b> <b>the BMad agent today. So all you got to do is</b> <b>clone and install. This is going to work in Cursor,</b> <b>Windsurf, Roo, Cline, Copilot. But more</b> <b>importantly, this works great with Gemini Gems and Chat GPT's</b> <b>custom GPTs. I highly recommend the Gemini</b> <b>Gems. And start with the default. I already have a</b> <b>build done in the repo, so you can just take</b> <b>all the files, even if you don't want to build it</b> <b>yourself, put it in the web and start playing</b> <b>with these agents today. And then finally, we have a</b> <b>great community on the GitHub repo for the BMad</b> <b>method. So you can share your suggestions. This</b> <b>whole thing is meant to be customizable and work</b> <b>for the way you want to work. So you can customize</b> <b>this and share your suggestions in the forum. A</b> <b>lot of people are doing amazing things with the</b> <b>BMad agent and the BMad method. And so there's</b> <b>a lot of people just willing to help you out. And</b> <b>we're all making this better together. This is</b> <b>an amazing system. This works in Greenfield. This</b> <b>works in Brownfield. And this works everywhere</b> <b>in between. All right, so let's now check out the</b> <b>BMad method. Again, there's a very active</b> <b>community here. Come in and check it out. See how</b> <b>other people are using it. You can also suggest</b> <b>issues or changes. Poll requests love feedback</b> <b>from the community because a lot of the ideas</b> <b>in V3 came from people suggesting some of these</b> <b>amazing changes. Getting started is now easier</b> <b>than ever. Anybody can do this. And I want you to</b> <b>just try this for yourself. All you have to do,</b> <b>come to the web build sample. And there's these</b> <b>one, two, three, four, five, six, seven files</b> <b>here. All you need to do is first of all, I would</b> <b>clone the repo. It's much easier to work with. So</b> <b>if you clone the repo locally, you'll have the BMad</b> <b>method just like here. This is the same GitHub</b> <b>that we were just looking at. And you can go to</b> <b>the web build sample. And first of all, this is</b> <b>the agent prompt. Now look at this agent prompt.</b> <b>You'll see that this is slightly less than 8,000</b> <b>characters. So this will work with custom GPTs.</b> <b>And this will also work with Gemini gems. This is</b> <b>the only file that you need to copy and paste the</b> <b>text. So I'm going to copy all of this, go into</b> <b>Gemini. Models are always advancing. You can play</b> <b>with the different models, but the 2.5 Pro is</b> <b>going to give you the huge context window that is just</b> <b>amazing. And then what we are going to do, so we</b> <b>are going to say new gem and we're just going to</b> <b>paste all of that information right in here in the</b> <b>instructions. You need to give it a name. I would</b> <b>call it BMad. So we'll just go to upload files.</b> <b>We're going to select every file except for the</b> <b>agent prompt. The prompt again is the</b> <b>instructions. Very similar in custom GPT. All of these other</b> <b>files we want to attach as knowledge for the</b> <b>agent. This is going to give it all of the intelligence</b> <b>and all of the personas. And now we can save</b> <b>here. We can start chat with it. And now this is</b> <b>to B-MAD. We can say slash help if we don't know</b> <b>what to do, or we can just start talking to the</b> <b>B-MAD agent. The B-MAD agent has a knowledge</b> <b>base and it is knowledgeable about all of the agents</b> <b>and all of the different workflows. But it also</b> <b>has these amazing help commands that you can use.</b> <b>So the BMad agent tells you that you can go</b> <b>to YOLO mode and just plow through all of your</b> <b>documents. I don't recommend it, but if you want</b> <b>to work really fast or maybe just work through a</b> <b>demo of the whole process, you can put it on</b> <b>YOLO mode. You can get a list of all the available</b> <b>agents and what they're able to do. So let's do</b> <b>that right now. Let's see what we have available</b> <b>to us and what they're capable of. And so you</b> <b>can see this tells us all of our different agents.</b> <b>We've given names to them. Some of them also have</b> <b>custom personalities. And we can see what type of</b> <b>tasks they can do. And as I said, the BMad method</b> <b>is very customizable. So people have told me in the</b> <b>past, their version of Agile is different than</b> <b>my version of Agile. And to be honest with you,</b> <b>across all of the industry, there is no one way</b> <b>of doing Agile and different roles do different</b> <b>things. So if you feel the product owner should be</b> <b>the one creating the product requirements document,</b> <b>you can customize it and have that set up. If you</b> <b>don't think there's no room for a product manager</b> <b>and instead you want to have only a Product Owner (PO), you can</b> <b>do that. You can change out the analyst. You can</b> <b>have the architect and the design architect be</b> <b>the same person. You can do so much configuration.</b> <b>It's wonderful. If I want to work on brainstorming,</b> <b>I can just talk to the analyst and say that I want</b> <b>to brainstorm on an idea. I don't even know what</b> <b>I want to build yet. Or when I'm ready to make my</b> <b>product brief, again, I can create the project</b> <b>brief with the analyst. And then when I'm done</b> <b>and the project brief is done, we've worked</b> <b>through all the sections from the template that</b> <b>she's going to work with us on. We tell her,</b> <b>let's hand it off to the product manager and BMad will</b> <b>orchestrate that and in memory it will hand it</b> <b>off. We can still keep copying all these artifacts out</b> <b>so we have them, but they're all being passed</b> <b>around in the context. And I've been able to go</b> <b>through a whole workflow of a brief, a large PRD,</b> <b>a large architecture, plus design, plus all of the</b> <b>checklists without having it start hallucinating</b> <b>or going off the rails. And you'll know if you run</b> <b>out of the context window, but you can have very</b> <b>long chats with this and actually do so much before</b> <b>you ever have to start a new chat. So once</b> <b>your artifacts are done, you can actually start</b> <b>developing. So when you come into here, again,</b> <b>this is the Bmed method. What you'll want to do</b> <b>is if you have your project, whether you're</b> <b>starting a new project or you've already started a project</b> <b>and you want to start using this method, all you</b> <b>have to do is copy over the BMad agent into your</b> <b>project. I can show you a project I have here</b> <b>and you can see I've been working on this a little</b> <b>bit. I've already completed one epic with cloud</b> <b>4. It's going so smooth and you can see all I've</b> <b>done is I've put the BMad agent here. The BMad</b> <b>agent is made up of multiple files and folders.</b> <b>There's a checklist, a data, a personas, a tasks,</b> <b>and a templates folder. And if you'll notice from</b> <b>our web build sample, what do we have here? We</b> <b>have checklists, data, personas, tasks, and templates.</b> <b>Whatever folders are in the BMad agent, it is</b> <b>going to create a compiled folder or a compiled</b> <b>file of all the content in that folder. So all</b> <b>of my personas, let's look at the PM, is a persona</b> <b>that is really tuned to being a very good product</b> <b>manager. So what are the principles of a product</b> <b>manager that are already active, always active?</b> <b>Well, they're right here. And you can see this is</b> <b>a person or a persona that is going to</b> <b>champion you and champion the end user and really work</b> <b>closely with you understanding what we're trying</b> <b>to build and why we're trying to build it. These</b> <b>are ingrained into the core principles of this</b> <b>persona. Unlike the previous methods, you will</b> <b>not see anything in here about the PM being</b> <b>able to create a PRD or do any other tasks. That is</b> <b>because that is not all fully customizable. These</b> <b>are just the personas. So the analyst you'll see</b> <b>is curiosity driven because this is a</b> <b>brainstorming expert and has very different personas, very</b> <b>action oriented, loves to be strategic and do</b> <b>market research. The architect is very analytical.</b> <b>This is not getting into the what they can do.</b> <b>The tasks are all the things that we define in the</b> <b>Bmed method that the agent can do for us. So what</b> <b>are some of those things? The agent can create a</b> <b>library for us and index our index folder to make</b> <b>sure it is a good resource for finding all of the</b> <b>information in our docs folder. It can create a</b> <b>UI you expect. It can create the PRD, the front end</b> <b>architecture. It can help us create masterful</b> <b>prompts to feed into the deep research because</b> <b>the prompt that you put into deep research also</b> <b>affects the quality that you get out of running</b> <b>deep research when you're doing it in the web.</b> <b>It can help us generate prompts for lovable or V0</b> <b>or replit to create these amazing prompts that we</b> <b>can one-shot our UI. It can help us course correct</b> <b>like I mentioned before. And also there's a task</b> <b>here to run checklists. So we might want to define</b> <b>all sorts of checklists in the future. By</b> <b>just having a generic task called run checklist,</b> <b>we can now allow any agent to be able to run</b> <b>any checklist that we defined. Now right here,</b> <b>we have story definition of done checklist to</b> <b>really make sure that the developer did everything</b> <b>it should. Did it test? Did it clean up the</b> <b>story? Did it check everything is complete?</b> <b>Did it run integration tests? Whatever we want</b> <b>to put in our DOD could be in this checklist.</b> <b>We have the Product Owner's Master Checklist that I described</b> <b>before, which is really making sure that every</b> <b>is cohesive and anything that was updated in one</b> <b>document is reflected in all the other documents</b> <b>and that there's no gaps in logic that our developer agents will later face.</b> <b>We have changed checklists. The architecture checklist is what it uses to make sure</b> <b>that the architecture that was produced from</b> <b>the template is spot on and matched closely to our</b> <b>PRD. So you can look at these checklists.</b> <b>They're all part of the format. This is a mistake here.</b> <b>There should be a markdown file, but text files</b> <b>work also. So we have our checklists. We have our</b> <b>tasks. We have our personas. And as I mentioned,</b> <b>we have our templates, right? So you can define</b> <b>what sections you want in your PRD. If you want</b> <b>your PRD laid out like I do, then this is the way</b> <b>to do it. If you want to have your stories</b> <b>following the same way I have my stories,</b> <b>this is the way to do it. By the way, the</b> <b>Scrum Master is going to put a lot more information</b> <b>than you see right here. So the developer agent</b> <b>is really going to stay on the rails and be able</b> <b>to get stuff done. In the web, we have this</b> <b>configuration file. And this file, when we</b> <b>compile our web build, becomes agent config. Now</b> <b>in here, we've said what agents we want. So maybe</b> <b>in our version of the BMad Method or for our web</b> <b>agent, we only want to have three agents, or maybe</b> <b>we only want to have four agents. Maybe we want</b> <b>to have an analyst, and then we want to have a</b> <b>technical product owner that can do PRD,</b> <b>architecture, and the front end, right? Like we can make any</b> <b>expert we want because we can define what tasks</b> <b>they're capable of doing, what templates they have</b> <b>access to, and what checklists they're allowed</b> <b>to run beyond what the tasks give them. So we can</b> <b>create an Uber agent if we want to beyond the</b> <b>BMad agent that can do anything. But I really</b> <b>recommend kind of keeping the personas tied to</b> <b>what they're doing because again, the persona</b> <b>really makes the architect a keen expert at</b> <b>producing your architecture. So matching the</b> <b>personas does make sense, but again, this is</b> <b>all customizable. And speaking of customization,</b> <b>one of the best things here is you can further</b> <b>customize by putting in a prompt right here. So</b> <b>this is a customization where it's just giving</b> <b>them a different type of personality just to test</b> <b>it out, but you can do so much more with these</b> <b>customizations. For example, if you're going to</b> <b>customize your dev agent, and by the way, there's</b> <b>also an IDE orchestrator to do all this, and it's</b> <b>a very similar setup here, but this is where you</b> <b>can create your full stack dev or your front end</b> <b>dev. So what is the difference? Well, I've told</b> <b>it to specialize in Next.js, React, TypeScript,</b> <b>HTML, and Tailwind. So now this is really going</b> <b>to take on the persona of a master front end web</b> <b>application developer, whereas this is more of a</b> <b>master generalist. If I knew I was doing TypeScript,</b> <b>you know, I could tell it to be a TypeScript</b> <b>expert or, you know, Go or C# or whatever it is,</b> <b>you can actually make multiple developers in here.</b> <b>You can give them different names. You don't have</b> <b>to name it dev or dev Front End or whatever names you</b> <b>want to use. If you have names that you can easily</b> <b>remember instead of wanting to remember their</b> <b>roles, it's really fun to give them names and</b> <b>personalities and work with that. But with the</b> <b>web orchestrator, agent config, or the other one,</b> <b>you can look at the examples. It's pretty</b> <b>easy. It'll help you set it up and create the exact</b> <b>personas that you want. So whatever you define in</b> <b>this file, they are now all going to be available</b> <b>to you through the BMad agent. He will allow you</b> <b>to talk to and transform to any one of these agents.</b> <b>So once you've created your PRD, your</b> <b>architecture and all of that, right, you're going to want to</b> <b>jump into the actual web here or excuse me,</b> <b>you're going to want to want to jump into the IDE and</b> <b>actually start developing to this project that</b> <b>I've started here already. So this is where I'm</b> <b>building a project. This is a daily digest. What</b> <b>this is going to do is this is going to download</b> <b>stories from Hacker News and create a daily</b> <b>podcast, a daily two person podcast, much like</b> <b>what I can do manually in notebook LM, except</b> <b>this is going to send me the daily podcast by email.</b> <b>What we have here, this is the backend service.</b> <b>And the first thing I do before I even started</b> <b>this project, I did start with a starter template.</b> <b>I always recommend starting with a starter template</b> <b>if you already have one. And when you talk to</b> <b>the agent, you tell it you have a starter template,</b> <b>you show it the structure and it's going to make</b> <b>sure that the documents it create will actually</b> <b>follow your starter template. But in the docs,</b> <b>you're not going to have all of these initially,</b> <b>what you're going to copy out of the web, out</b> <b>of the web, or if you're using the agents in here</b> <b>to produce these documents, you're going to have a</b> <b>PRD, you're going to have an architecture, that's</b> <b>it. And then you're going to run that sharding</b> <b>task. And the sharding task is going to take your PRD</b> <b>and it's going to pull out these separate Epic</b> <b>files. And the Epics are what describes the overall</b> <b>large pieces of functionality. And it's</b> <b>already broken it down into these high level stories.</b> <b>When we run the sharding task on the architecture,</b> <b>it's going to create our API reference that gives</b> <b>us all the details of all the APIs we're going</b> <b>to be interacting with. It's going to give us the</b> <b>component view to really look at which components</b> <b>we're going to be creating. It's going to give us</b> <b>our data models. These are the files that are</b> <b>going to keep the agents on the rail. This probably is</b> <b>one of the two most important documents. And</b> <b>this is our project structure. Now, this is the</b> <b>backend and this is the frontend. So it's</b> <b>already laid out here and it's going to give all of the</b> <b>details of where files need to go. So it</b> <b>knows exactly where to put things and it has some</b> <b>descriptions here. Now the tech stack is</b> <b>very important. And one of the big key changes</b> <b>in V3, and actually in V2, we also had this,</b> <b>is we trained the agents to be very specific on</b> <b>versions. Here, we're saying use Axios. In past</b> <b>versions, it might say things like use Axios or</b> <b>Fetch. And that is very detrimental if you don't</b> <b>tie it down to one version, because then what your</b> <b>agents will do is they might start using Axios</b> <b>and then they'll have a unit test that fails. And</b> <b>then if you're not paying attention what the agent</b> <b>will do, and trust me, I've seen it do this before,</b> <b>is it'll say, "Oh, I'll use Fetch because it</b> <b>wasn't very specific." And so then you'll have</b> <b>two different HTTP libraries in your project,</b> <b>not even realizing it, because it made some dumb</b> <b>mistake and instead of fixing the unit test, it</b> <b>just decided to install like a whole new version</b> <b>or a whole new library. So the key thing with</b> <b>the architecture is the architecture knows that</b> <b>everything needs to be as explicit and defined</b> <b>in here as possible. So you should not see any</b> <b>multiple choice, maybe use this, maybe use that.</b> <b>So you can see here, when I worked with the design</b> <b>agent, we worked on this UX UI spec first, and I</b> <b>described the look and feel that I wanted of this.</b> <b>So the application is simple. There's a list</b> <b>page and there's a details page. On the list page,</b> <b>we're going to look at every day's Hacker News</b> <b>digest that I created. You can click on it and</b> <b>you can go to a detail page. There's going to</b> <b>be a player. You can see stats and you can go to</b> <b>different links on Hacker News to actually see</b> <b>the comments, or you can just listen to the website.</b> <b>And also there's going to be like ways to</b> <b>subscribe to get the podcast in your email</b> <b>and later post MVP versions. But I wanted to do</b> <b>something different and not just have it look like</b> <b>boring stock tailwind. So I told it I wanted an</b> <b>80s retro CRT terminal look, green glowing text</b> <b>font to really give it that 80s terminal feel.</b> <b>The prompt, the V0 prompt, I had to generate that</b> <b>after we already went through the full PRD in</b> <b>both architectures and the UX UI spec, obviously,</b> <b>so it really understood every page that we</b> <b>need for the MVP. So you can see it's a three page</b> <b>responsive web app. It knows the name of the app,</b> <b>what technologies we're using, all of the constraints,</b> <b>all of the design. This is exactly what I</b> <b>envisioned. This is a one shot. Again, I would</b> <b>have never been able to just like type all this</b> <b>and get this perfectly. When I say this was a one</b> <b>shot, this was an amazing one shot. Look at all</b> <b>of this that it did. It even knew the layout of the</b> <b>files from the architecture that I wanted for</b> <b>the front end architecture, how I wanted the</b> <b>organization of the application from the design</b> <b>architect. And it gave me an app. And when I say</b> <b>a full working app, I mean, this is not</b> <b>calling back in data, obviously, but it's ready for</b> <b>everything else. So as you can see, once I had</b> <b>this all working here and I saw that this all</b> <b>work, I was just blown away. I was then able</b> <b>to click this download button way over here.</b> <b>And then I was able to just jump into a new</b> <b>project. I dumped everything that I downloaded.</b> <b>The only thing I added here was a docs file</b> <b>with the front end architecture, which I have not</b> <b>sharded yet here. I will. So it also has</b> <b>everything, but it's already laid out exactly like the design</b> <b>architect even envisioned it, which is great. I</b> <b>ran NPM install. So it installed the node modules</b> <b>and it set up next and everything that I needed.</b> <b>And now I can do NPM run dev and boom. Like this</b> <b>is literally all I did beyond NPM install. And</b> <b>now you can see the application is actually running</b> <b>here on our local host. I'll go to this here.</b> <b>We'll load it. And this is now running from my local</b> <b>machine, ready to be developed, carved up to hit</b> <b>the regular APIs once they're deployed. And just</b> <b>like we saw on the web, this is all interactive,</b> <b>but this is now running from the local machine,</b> <b>full functioning running web app built to</b> <b>spec and built to the needs of our app, actual</b> <b>application. So it's already set up to call and</b> <b>understand the API routes that we're going to be</b> <b>building on the backend. So this is not just a</b> <b>scaffolded UI that has no concept of how it's</b> <b>actually going to work. This is really set up to</b> <b>carve up and implement the UI will be done in no</b> <b>time. Hey, if you're still here and enjoying</b> <b>this video, please click like and subscribe to the</b> <b>channel. So much more content is coming real</b> <b>soon. What I want to show you right now is how</b> <b>to start coding in the backend. The key to</b> <b>getting this going is whatever ID you're in,</b> <b>go to the GitHub repo. And I have instructions for</b> <b>every IDE of how to set up your custom IDE agents.</b> <b>I'm not a big fan of rules. I'm in cursor right</b> <b>now. You will see, I have some cursor rules here,</b> <b>but I'll show you why I have those. But generally</b> <b>I start with no rules because everything is going</b> <b>to be in the user stories. What you'll want to do</b> <b>is you'll want to install the BMad agent because</b> <b>this is your agent that can become any of the</b> <b>other agents if you need them. So to set up the</b> <b>BMad agent, just come over here to the IDE</b> <b>BMad orchestrator markdown file, copy all of this</b> <b>content. And just like we do with our other</b> <b>custom agent modes, we're going to copy this into a new</b> <b>BMad agent, go to advanced options of hearing</b> <b>cursor, paste all of those instructions there,</b> <b>and it will now use the config and all of the</b> <b>folders, just like our web agent did to become any agent.</b> <b>In the Personas folder, there are two</b> <b>agents that specifically have the .ide extension.</b> <b>So these are very specifically set up to work with the bmed method.</b> <b>They're tuned to look for a docs folder with</b> <b>these files and they know the file names that</b> <b>they need to be able to look for to produce the right artifacts.</b> <b>What you'll want to do is you'll want to install the sm.ide version and the dev.ide</b> <b>agent.</b> <b>The scrum master, the purpose of the scrum</b> <b>master as always is to produce the next story.</b> <b>So I'm going to show you how that works.</b> <b>We've already implemented Epic 1.</b> <b>But you can see here, I have the scrum master draft story 1.1.</b> <b>I always start a new context window after each action.</b> <b>The scrum master creates a story.</b> <b>Start a new window for the dev agent.</b> <b>Once that's done, new window for the scrum master, then to the dev agent.</b> <b>So you can see I just go through this.</b> <b>Create the story, implement the story, create the story, implement the story.</b> <b>I could choose to draft all of my stories</b> <b>at once, but there's a real benefit to doing</b> <b>it this way.</b> <b>And that is because as the dev agent works</b> <b>on the story, it is going to populate the</b> <b>story with a lot of notes.</b> <b>And it's also going to leave notes for the</b> <b>scrum master about anything it might need</b> <b>to know that might have deviated or something</b> <b>weird that it just needs to know for the next</b> <b>story.</b> <b>And the scrum master will use that when it's crafting the next story.</b> <b>So maybe it learned from a past mistake, it won't do it again.</b> <b>Let's have our agent get started on the new story.</b> <b>So always starting a new chat window, making</b> <b>sure I choose the scrum master because this</b> <b>is the one that is tuned.</b> <b>And I'm going to remove everything from</b> <b>context and just to show you that it doesn't rely</b> <b>on anything being open.</b> <b>I'm going to close everything.</b> <b>So I am going to tell the scrum master to draft the next story.</b> <b>And if you like using super whisper or</b> <b>anything else, you can also just of course talk to</b> <b>it.</b> <b>So let's draft the next story.</b> <b>Basically what this is going to be doing is</b> <b>it searches the docs folder, it's going to</b> <b>find what the last story that was done was,</b> <b>it's going to look at the epics, figure out</b> <b>what the next one is.</b> <b>It's going to read all of our various</b> <b>architectures, all the sharded documents, and figure out</b> <b>all of the information that the developer needs so it doesn't have to search all of</b> <b>those files itself.</b> <b>And it's going to create a very detailed task and sub-task story for the developer</b> <b>agent.</b> <b>This is good.</b> <b>This is actually a protection here.</b> <b>So it is telling me that 1.6 was not actually marked done.</b> <b>So I forgot to mark 1.6 as done.</b> <b>And that's true.</b> <b>It's in review.</b> <b>So we can just mark this as done, save it.</b> <b>I'm going to tell it number three here.</b> <b>Go ahead.</b> <b>So that's a safety precaution to make sure</b> <b>that it's not creating or starting to work</b> <b>on a new story when another story was not completed.</b> <b>What I want to show you in here is that in</b> <b>these stories, aside from the checklist, they</b> <b>will also leave issues that it ran into.</b> <b>So I'm trying to find an example of that.</b> <b>Now here's an interesting one.</b> <b>So here's some issues that were encountered when it was trying to set up CDK.</b> <b>It was making some mistakes.</b> <b>So as I said, I don't use cursor rules from the beginning.</b> <b>But when I see things like this and I want</b> <b>it to learn from it and remember it, I will</b> <b>copy this, paste it into an agent window,</b> <b>and tell Cursor to generate custom rules so</b> <b>these things don't happen again.</b> <b>So that's why I have these rules up here right now.</b> <b>But that's a good quick way to just not have</b> <b>it repeat these stupid things over and over</b> <b>again.</b> <b>This is now drafting our story.</b> <b>And it's actually a little bit slow.</b> <b>And the reason it's slow is because it's doing</b> <b>this massive analysis of all of these documents</b> <b>and sections that it read to really figure</b> <b>out what it needs to put into the stories.</b> <b>But you can see it found the right story to make.</b> <b>It's going to implement it.</b> <b>And then once it's done, we switch to our dev agent.</b> <b>The agent, the Scrum Master, also runs a</b> <b>story checklist to really make sure that the draft</b> <b>is comprehensive and that it didn't forget anything.</b> <b>It's saying yes, everything is good, and it's considered everything.</b> <b>So now we can look at our draft story 2.1.</b> <b>I'm just going to accept it.</b> <b>I'm going to mark it as in progress just</b> <b>so I can show you the developer agent going.</b> <b>It took just this fragment that it needs so</b> <b>the agent knows where to put the code that</b> <b>it's going to work on it.</b> <b>It's pulling what data models it needs to know.</b> <b>We're going to be setting up some step functions.</b> <b>This is actually going to get into some</b> <b>pretty complicated stuff in this 2.1 story because</b> <b>we're setting up a lot of our custom infrastructure and async orchestration.</b> <b>So it's going to be really interesting to</b> <b>see how well the dev agent does with this.</b> <b>And you can see at the end, there's all</b> <b>these placeholders where the dev agent will put</b> <b>notes.</b> <b>So it's going to put its story note progress.</b> <b>It's going to put completion notes for the next Scrum Master.</b> <b>That's what I was talking about.</b> <b>It's going to leave a change log.</b> <b>It's also going to annotate which agent was used.</b> <b>So that creates an interesting history if</b> <b>you want to go back and see which agents you</b> <b>used for which stories.</b> <b>But I'm going to make sure I select my developer agent.</b> <b>And the developer has rules to know to</b> <b>look for the in progress story or the one that</b> <b>I tell it and start developing it.</b> <b>So I'm just going to say it.</b> <b>Let's implement the story.</b> <b>Claude 4 Sonnet seems to be miles ahead of</b> <b>where we were before as far as being able</b> <b>to fix linting issues, test issues.</b> <b>This just seems miles ahead of 3.7.</b> <b>So I've just been loving the experience so</b> <b>far of developing with this new Claude 4 Sonnet.</b> <b>And the power of the BMad Method V3 just makes</b> <b>it all come together better because the Scrum</b> <b>Master in the IDE and the dev agent in the</b> <b>IDE have also just been fine tuned to also</b> <b>work much better than they did in V2.</b> <b>So many improvements.</b> <b>Can't even go into all of it.</b> <b>Thumbs up.</b> <b>Subscribe.</b> <b>Join the community.</b> <b>Let me know how this is working for you.</b> <b>No matter your experience level, I know</b> <b>the BMad agent is going to be amazing for you</b> <b>and help you out.</b> <b>So we'll see you next time here on BMad Code.</b> <b>Thank you everybody.</b>