# Answer These 8 Questions Before You Implement AI

Published: 2025-09-23

A participant in our second brain enterprise program told me this recently that they've spent $50,000 on AI tools and it's only made their business worse. That made me realize most businesses out there are approaching AI completely backwards. And that's why I've brought in Hayden and Dale into the studio today. See, while everyone else is trying or experimenting or considering or studying the different AI tools, they've developed something much more practical and something very different. A readiness assessment. This assessment predicts AI success before you even start. You'll discover why adopting AI before answering this set of critical questions is practically a guarantee of failure. Dale and Hayden are my co-f facilitators in the cohort-based course that we offer for business owners and leaders, which is called Second Brain Enterprise. You can find out more about it in the description below. The first question I have here, and I'd love to to get your take on how you would ask this, how you would answer it, what are some of the things you take into account is simply, what do you want AI to achieve in your business? you the way I I would phrase that question is what are you optimizing for as a business and and also what what is your business's bottleneck right now? Those are those are probably what are the constraints that are stopping you from getting to what you're optimizing for. Some people are optimizing for um the business to run without them, right? Or to avoid doing the things that they hate doing. Um I think AI is really uniquely uh suited to do the stuff you are not good at doing and you don't like doing or or to make it you know tolerable or palatable right so for me personally that's actually the first thing I I look to AI for is I really don't like driving accountability right it's just I'm a classic visionary right um it's boring to me but AI can help do a lot of that and automate a lot of that you might be optimizing for scale or growth, AI can help with that as well. Right? You might be optimizing for exit and liquidity. AI can help with that as well. But the first thing is understanding what outcome do I want, right? What am I optimizing for? And then what's stopping me from achieving that outcome? >> Is there anything that AI can't help you optimize for? >> I think AI can help with anything. uh given the right context, AI is a genius coach, but you need to give AI the context, right, to to be able to help. I I would actually argue that no, there's actually probably nothing that AI can't help with. Obviously, there are certain things, which we'll get to, that are certainly more leverable and there are certain things that AI can do almost 100% of, right, versus maybe helping you with 20%. So what I what I heard in that is AI can help you optimize for practically any outcome, but you still need to decide what is the outcome that you want to optimize for. What happens if you if you just don't answer this question, you just skip it. You end up doing a lot of different work for a lot of different types of people. Probably everything even if you have a 20-year-old business, it still acts like a startup. Everyone wears a ton of different hats. Um, everyone there's a probably a lack of consistency in your work product. Um, you're probably still doing work like you're probably working in the business, not on the business. You're probably working long hours and everyone's probably working long hours. You know, you're probably not seeing a lot of vacation. Uh, you're probably burnt out. >> Number two is which functions in your business can be most leveraged by AI. The ultimate AI businesses today and they're coming around today have both customer acquisition and fulfillment fully automated in a in a workflow, right? And so right now the fulfillment piece is basically software, right? So software companies today can effectively have two person companies reach, you know, hundreds of millions of dollars, maybe billion dollar valuations, right? And you're seeing that right now. all these giant unicorns, they're all software that so customer acquisition first of all is highly highly leveraged and in different ways, right? And we can get into that fulfillment if it's remote and it can be done on a computer, right? Is also highly leveraged. Um fulfillment if it's in person and you know done with a wrench is not that highly leveraged but pieces of that fulfillment. So we have businesses like plumbing businesses and you know the the basic core value of a plumbing business is you send plumbers and trucks out to homes. They do work, they go to the next appointment, they go to the next appointment, they go to the next appointment and come back. So you can't use AI to leverage much of the work that they're doing. You can use AI to have better pricing, make more money per appointment, um be more efficient. Uh you can use however you can use AI for the CSR, the customer service and dispatch side. You can use AI to make that dispatch most efficient. You can use AI to make the customer service person be able to attend to 30 or 40 plumbers instead of five or 10. And all the shared functions, right? Finance. AI can highly leverage finance for you. And in terms of hiring, uh AI can't physically yet um you know do all of the actual interviews, but it can probably do 90% of the lift. So that someone who was a dedicated people and culture person who may have, you know, before being able to possibly bring in two to three hires a month could probably now bring in, you know, 10 to 20, 20 to 30 because AI is actually doing all of the work in marketing the positions, screening the candidates, taking people out of the funnel, and now all the person needs to do is, you know, make sure that the interviews happen and even the onboarding, all of that stuff. much of that again if it can be done at a computer it can be heavily heavily leveraged. >> Which functions of a business cannot currently be leveraged by AI because there's probably fewer than the ones that can at this point. >> I mean it it's really anything that involves that doesn't involve the use of a computer. AI can't apparently paint your house. It can't mow your lawn. Now when robotics comes out, all of that will then become possible. But I personally think we're quite far away from that. That doesn't mean though that those elements can't be supported. And so again, when we look at these functions, I'll talk about them right now, right? We you have this core value chain, which is how do you deliver value to your customers? And that that to me is the what most business owners should really be focusing their time on. And so you have a market to lead. How do people discover who you are and then basically give you permission to contact them again in the future? Then you have lead to sale. Once you've gotten their contact information, how do you then turn them into an actual paying customer >> transaction of some kind? >> And then depending on the business, you may have sale to delivery, right? So once someone has become a customer, what does handoff and onboarding of that customer look like? And that could be very very simple in a digital business where it's automatic or it could be quite complex in a construction business where there's you know a whole bunch of scope that needs to be defined a bunch of onboarding etc. And then you have you know the the largest one which is delivery to success right so and that is your fulfillment of actually what you're doing and the last piece which most businesses ignore is is basically completes this in terms of what was a linear look into a loop which is success back to market right so or or success to lead right and so that is how do you get um reviews how do you get referrals you know from the work that you do. The interesting thing there is like when you look at a let's say a totally manual, you know, technicianbased business that goes to your home market to lead 100% can be leveraged by AI. Lead to sale very much can be leveraged by AI, not 100% because someone's often someone's still doing the sale in the person's home, but there's ways you can go go around that. Uh so sale to delivery and delivery to success, not really. Some of it like like we mentioned like the dispatch root optimization price optimization etc that goes to support that can be and then but that's a different set of processes that we call enabling process but the success to market and the success to lead which again most companies are ignoring and in my opinion that's a key to having like a a virtuous cycle in your business 100% can be leveraged by AI. So, so looking it's sort of like you're instead of looking at as at the departments of a business like the classic ones operations, marketing etc. You're looking at even from a customer centric point of view the customer journey each segment of it can either be fully automated and taken over by AI or partially leveraged or at least enabled or improved in some way. Is there are there any that can't? You've mentioned them all. They basically all can, right? >> Yeah, they they all can be in in some way. And like like I said, if it's if the delivery to success portion of that is handled manually or handled like outside of a computer, it's not as leveraged, right? And so that is the core value chain. It's interesting because most no operating systems really talk about that from a from a processcentric point of view, meaning what are we internally focusing on and looking at. Some some people look at that as they call it customer life cycle, but that's more of a customer like an external what is the customer experiencing? But I I actually prefer it I prefer looking at both ways. But I I also prefer internally for us to be obsessed on that us as a team to be obsessed with that. So that's the middle the middle layer. You have a layer above which has who are you what are you doing? Why are you doing it? So your business identity, your strategic planning, you know, how are you? What's your unique value proposition? Who's your customer? All of that influences very much sort of that core value chain. And then at the bottom you have all of the enabling processes, right? And so things like financial performance management, how is that done? Things around hire to retire, right? How does all of your recruiting and retention um and your culture, people systems work? There's a bunch of those at the bottom, but the ones that I've noticed in my business is the first things we focus on when we buy a business is we focus on this middle piece first. Then once we've got sort of a leadership team that understands the business, we focus on that top piece and and actually we do focus on two pieces of the bottom because they're really crucial um which is the hire to retire and the financial performance because those are areas that can kill your business but outside of that uh we kind of leave that for for later. All right, question number three. Which parts of your business are ready for AI? >> So you know that question is part of the assessment and really builds on the question prior, right? what what we use the term function. What what are the the areas um you might think of it in terms of like what collections of processes can be leveraged and you gave some really great examples in that segment of you things that are digital versus things that are more tangible. things that are related to the customer value chain versus things that are more strategic or foundational versus things that are more enabling or administrative would be some other words that people might find value. Understanding what those functions are in a particular case and what what those categories of of processes are and then based on the kind of organization that you have uh leads to the question of how mature are those or those those functions and and how ready to you know augment or automate via AI is it >> again shared language what what are the functions and how mature are they and and the assessment will walk you through that step by step if you have so I would say where businesses may have processes actually outlined. They may have checklists in place. They may have flowcharts. Those are all signs of being more more ready. >> If something just exists in somebody's head, um if it's kind of based on tribal knowledge, I'd say that's a sign of probably having to do other work to get ready. But AI can help a lot with that work. So what I'm hearing is you need a given function in your business to be documented to have a process that is in some external form not just in your head. Is that the basic prerequisite for AI to be able to improve it? >> Yep. But and the good news is if you don't have that AI can help you make that. >> Let's talk about that because I most small business owners that I know don't have any semblance of what you just described. So, how can AI help you get from lacking a process, at least a documented process, to having it be documented? I mean, it's basically because it takes a long time to do and it and it >> it's hard. It takes a long time to do and it doesn't directly generate you revenue >> and the combination of those three things means it usually gets started and not finished and then it turns into kind of a little bit of like a piece of shame for business owners. And so a lot of people don't like the word process and the P word because >> P word. >> Yeah. Because it it kind of gives them that sense of oh I know I should be doing that but I'm not. So the beauty of it is it is documentation and that is one of the things that AI is best at. What used to take so I used to do this manually in all of my businesses and it would take months months you know first we would go giant whiteboard entire leadership team you know our first leadership team we had a a whole system right our first leadership team workshop we'd always outline one process and basically explain what process was document how it looks today in a flowchart document how maybe it should look in the future and then get into that okay leadership team in your spare time you know go create checklist and SOP PS, right? And we'd create, you know, a three-month plan to do these things. It would often take six plus months. AI giving given the right context through a master prompt, AI can do that for you in seconds, right? Minutes maybe. And it does it in like shockingly well, like probably better than your first three passes if you had done it manually. And it does it in minutes. Now, you still have to then actually bring that into the real world, right? You still have to then bring it to your team and teach them it and ask them does this actually work and then how are we going to measure this right? All of that still has to be done but because like that piece you've no longer exhausted your team in the creation of it because of that it's actually possible to finish it. Let's move on to question number four which is are you working remotely or in person? Why is that an important question to ask? for the reason we mentioned before is like basically can this be done on a computer and if you're working remotely it can be done on a computer simple as that and so any any function we add this in as a question just to really accentuate that any function that is remote and on a computer can be highly highly leveraged any function that is requires in person less so so it seems like this this question is about sort of just putting the different parts of your business on a spectrum um of digital to in person because a very similar spectrum tells you where AI is going to help immediately and where it's going to take some time. Uh let's move on to number five. Uh what things are easy and hard to do when it comes to AI. So I would actually separate this into uh three levels of difficulty. And so the the first is can I just prompt chatgpt or claude or whatever whichever LLM um to help with what I need to do. Right. And so that requires no code requires no technology really outside of the LLM itself. Very basic training. >> May maybe even the free version of >> Yeah. Exactly. Um a and in some cases when we're creating you know checklists and processes now it can just be like make this prompt and you know your LM has the context needed to help you with the answer. So that's sort of the the most basic, right? The next is can you use noode tools and workflows to create some level of automation. Those are things like uh n using make using zap year, right? Requires someone who's you know got some decent level of experience with computers but not really a programmer. And then the third is do you need like custom implementations? Do you actually need to work with OpenAI's API? Do you need to work with like Slack's API? Do you etc. Right? And that's sort of the hardest piece. And then another piece of it is like what actual tools are you using in your business that you want to continue using? And so if you're using Salesforce for example, you know, what does that integrate with, right? If you're using a very specific software that doesn't have a lot of integrations, how do you solve that? You would look at a business and say what things can be can be done what initiatives what projects with just LLMs which ones need no code tools and which ones need custom integrations. Those are the three levels. So how how does someone who's not an AI expert know whether a given project or implementation in their business is at level one, two, or three without being familiar with all the different options and tools and different things. Is there an easy way to tell? >> Ask your your LLM with the right context. Right. And so then that's what we teach is like how how would I do this with only prompting versus how would I do this uh with a workflow versus how do I do this with agents, right? Those are kind of the three levels. What what I see constantly and you see this everywhere in YouTube. It's like agents the big buzzword. But 99% of the value may just come from prompting. and you can do prompting now whereas the agent side might take months to integrate and that integration may not be nearly as complete as you thought it was going to be. >> It be fragile. It might break with some new advance. So the problem of deciding which level you're at is itself a level one problem. >> Yes. >> Yeah. >> Okay. Next question number six. What's the impact or return on investment of a given initiative? Again, that kind of goes down to how leveraged how leveraged can it be by AI. Um, one of the things we we didn't talk about was if something is highly leveraged by AI like if if I could do something 100 or thousand times faster, which there are many things you can do, are there actually diminishing returns in the business for doing it 100 or a thousand times? >> What would be an example? >> Let's say newsletters, right? Let's say you're you're sending out newsletters and it used to take someone a full day to to do a really good newsletter or or it would take them a full day to create all of the content that would be that would go out with the newsletter, right? So that might be like a blog post. Um it might be like a lead magnet or something like that. And now like that's one of the things that that same person could probably do 30 in a day, right? 20 to 30. But is there actually value? Could you send 20 to 30 emails in a day? No. No, you couldn't. Could you publish 20 to 30 blog posts? You could, right? And there would be some level of value from that. Right? So again, when you separate it like what are the what's the unique value of this role into actually the constituent pieces, which is I'm creating good content and then I'm sending that content to my subscribers. Part of that value is I might be like SEO optimizing that content so people can find it. Or maybe I'm also like, you know, LLM optimizing that content so they can find it within chat GPT send, which was probably 80% of the value. The send to your can probably only be done the same amount that you've been doing it, right? Maybe if you've been doing once a week, you can do it every day. >> Yeah. >> Right. >> Yeah. >> Um but you can't do it 30 times a day. >> Yeah. >> But the other pieces still add a lot of value. What would be an example? So So you're basically saying that some activities can scale, some some can't. What would be something that you could do a hundred or a thousand times as often? >> So, if you wanted to contact businesses and contact strangers and let them know um about your business, right? Another form like outbound marketing for market to lead. Maybe you have, you know, someone doing that right now and they're contacting 100 businesses a day. Well, in reality, if your addressable market is, you know, 100,000 businesses, uh, you could pro, and the reality of this is that only a small percentage of businesses open or respond at a time. So, you could probably, you know, reach out to that same business every two months, let's say, right? Or every 3 months. So, realistically, you could likely do that 33,000 to 50,000 times a month and still see no diminishing returns from it. >> Wow. >> Right. And the reality is AI can do that automatically. So you could go from a 100, let's call it 2,000 a month to 50,000 a month and and see no diminishing returns and it could be entirely automatic. >> The question of what can be automated is one question in this question of diminishing return like which what things should be automated is a different question because there may be things that can be automated that should just be eliminated because they are bad things. Don't don't do those things anymore. Don't automate things that don't create value or or at least be aware of what that diminishing return is in the process of of figuring that out. >> Well, I know one of our customers while we were going through the cohort of Second Brain Enterprise, one of our customers uh we were talking we're going through the lead to sale part and we're talking about RFPs, right? So, creating proposals this this person just did it and took something that used to take something like 8 to 10 hours and made it make take under 20 minutes. And so, that just that's an unlock for the business. that's something they weren't doing before because it took so long. And so it's an unlock for their business because they actually could do that. >> Now if they're if they wanted to do that, you know, 200 times a week, they absolutely could. And that's a massive unlock for their business. And maybe they price in maybe it's not 100% the business they want to do. So they make it, you know, they target a profit margin that's much higher. They could still get that business. Number seven, what are the cultural beach heads you need to be aware of? First, maybe we should say what a cultural beach head is. You know, this this assessment question came up in in, you know, the conversation that we'd had here recently about recognizing that you have to understand where there are points of cultural resistance. I think that the term beach head came up as a a sort of a metaphor for understanding like we're driving our our boat into you know the harbor and there's a hidden sandbar and and you run into it and if you're not aware of where that is it can cause all kinds of issues like m doing an AI initiative might make things worse as a matter of fact so being aware of what people's uh beliefs and and and points of resistance to the use of or the exploration of AI you mentioned the term change management a bit ago like it understanding where we are >> and and understanding what people's appetite might look like. Uh how curious are they about these things? >> It always amazes me how much humans just need to talk about things >> to digest and process any event, any kind of change, any new idea. There's like a there's like a d mental digestion that just needs to just needs to be discussed, needs to be talked about. And maybe that would be a way of um of also discovering what those beach heads are. Like when you introduce, hey everyone, we're thinking of doing this. What do you guys think? You'll probably get a series of responses that tell you where some of the beach heads are. >> Mhm. >> All right. Uh last question. Which metrics will you use to track and measure the success of AI initiatives? So what can't be measured can't be managed and improved, right? That is the the core sort of management philosophy. And the same goes with AI implementation. You this question is the last question because it really builds on everything else that we've talked about before. When you have a specific area, process, function, whatever you want to call it that you need to improve, that needs to have a metric or success metric associated with it. >> In addition, right, maybe you already have this. One of the biggest things is you need to now set new standards with AI. And the thing I've noticed more and more is, you know, I look at businesses and buy business, it's the standards that really make the difference. >> Not only do you need to set those standards, you need to have that cultural beach head and understanding of everyone accepting those standards. So number one is what process are you applying this to? What was the metric of success? What's the new metric of success? What was the standard? What's the new standard? Outside of that, you actually have implementation specific measurables. How many processes are you actively implementing? How act how are you measuring them? Are things taking? How many times are you actually hitting that success rate? All these things actually need to be measured. Uh and again, if you don't manage to measure it, it's not going to get used. Can you give an example of some activity or process what the old standard was and what the new one is that you move to? >> Yeah. So, I'll I'll return to the newsletter example. In this case, in that newsletter example, it's no longer one person's full-time job. And that is a new that's a new standard that I that I'm saying, right? So, I'm saying, okay, before you were writing a newsletter and sending it out uh every day, and that was 100% of your job. Now you're now that only actually represents 10% of your job. And the other 90% is maybe in this example you're publishing and SEO optimizing and LLM optimizing posts or similar work. You know, we now know that LLM grab a lot from um Reddit and from other social media. You know, you're going to start posting there and use LLM to do that. And so the role adapts and changes. And that's an example of the standard adapting for the actual piece, the measurement, but the role also adapting. >> And that person again needs to accept that. And that's culturally that can be difficult to tell you, hey Thiago, by the way, you now need to do what you were doing in one/tenth the time and I'm going to add a whole bunch of other things for you to do. What incentive do you have? Because if I tell you if you don't do it, you're going to get fired and I'll replace you with someone who does. You're probably going to resent me. So what incentive am I giving you to do that? Are you going to make more money? Are you going to work four days a week instead of every day? You know, are you going to get ownership of the company? Like all of these things are possibilities. >> I have another example making it really tactical. That's a good one to talk about the the the the newsletter creation and optimization of and so on. Um I'll give a really very very tactical example. So we talk about things that can be, you know, digitally automated versus things that on a spectrum are very, you know, physically tangible. Um, an organization that I've had an opportunity to support is in the dry goods uh clothing space. And so one of the metrics if you will the success measures uh for them are you know the the p uh percentage of fulfillment when one of their buyers wholesaler or retail buyer calls in and orders a particular product or or group of products the percentage of those they're able to fulfill is a standard measure of success. So in their particular space, the industry standard is somewhere, let's say, between 85 and 90%. Meaning that if you call up and you order a collection of things and sizes and so on, they're going to be able to ship you between 85 and 90% of that at that moment versus 100% meaning they would have all of those things in stock at all times. So you there's this diminishing return. Classically, preAI, they could choose the trade-off of saying we want to have a really high rate of uh fulfillment, which is going to require us to marginally start to carry quite a bit more inventory than what we are able to financially sustain. >> So, there's a financial question. So, if we want to be at a 95 or a 97% fulfillment, that might move us up in the in the in the minds of of certain buyers. But, at what cost? what's possible. The other factors in that are understanding what buyers are going to want in some cases a season or season and a half in advance. It can be challenging. How are you going to collect that information? You're going to you're going to ask questions. You're going to, you know, get this information and you're going to make some educated guesses about what to send orders to the factories, you know, across the pond for. Okay. new standard of of success. With the use of AI as an example, we now might be able to move from an 85 to a 90 or a 92% fulfillment by using AI not any more people necessarily. We still we can use AI to understand and predict buying patterns. We can also use it to understand and make some predictions about timelines and things like this. Formerly, it was reliant on some spreadsheets and some tribal knowledge and some gut instinct and some good guessing. But we've just teased out a bunch of that stuff to where we can actually move the standard of success to a higher level without creating this this marginal increase in financial in capital requirement. So that's a new standard of success that is developed. Same people involved in this case. We're not eliminating people. We're just essentially doing our jobs better as a result of the technology. >> What I hear in that I just want to I just want to repeat back is almost like so often in business there's just trade-offs. There's no like this is the right answer. It's this verse that this metric versus that that metric. You're kind of saying that AI changes the trade-offs. You can now start to have both or more of each than you could previously. >> Yeah. Maybe both. Or maybe that that that the calculus of the trade-off >> can be understood in a different way. What was formerly accepted as a trade-off >> canra as a hard constraint the the the edges of that start to uh start to get a little closer. We start to move in the direction of both. >> So we we talked there's kind of four areas that I think AI really leverages. Well, we've talked you know my example is kind of documentation like the creation of content right and your example is in prediction, right? Mhm. >> There's another example which can be in research, right? But the one that I like to think about most is personalization, right? And so personalization is actually more about conversion rate, right? And so I mentioned before the example of there's no not really a diminishing return of me reaching out to uh you know 50,000 people a month instead of um 2,000 people a month. Well, actually, I can also use AI to highly personalize each of those 50,000 messages. So, when I look at that role, right, or you know, that function, let's call it, right? I might have before look at looked at that being, okay, we're going to reach out to 2,000 people. We're going to get a 3% reply rate. Um, and you know, that's going to be whatever that is, right? Um, now I'm saying we're going to reach out to 50,000 people, but we're going to get a 6% reply rate or a 8% reply rate because those 50,000 people got a personalized video from a person, right? And if you look and that's something we're doing actively, right? It's a personalized video reaching out to them, literally showing like a Loom style video of your of your face on their website, right? And that obviously has a much higher open rate because it's perceived as someone put like real time into this. Now, they that may only work for a certain period of time until everybody's doing it and everyone can recognize it. But that's the type of thing where you can really exponentially um increase the standard. It's almost like AI gets certain tasks or certain kinds of tasks and just collapses the time and energy and money it would take to produce them. So like on on my team, um asking for reports >> is a big one. like anytime I want to know oh uh people who customers who came in through this acquisition channel what how much money do they tend to spend in the past that would have been like pulling teeth because someone has to stop we don't have a you know a business analyst on staff they'd have to stop their job go compile all that data write it up now I just get reports you know almost the same day in many cases >> and it's because your people are using AI >> oh big time yeah it's because they know and and they're using AI with enough context to actually just be able to ask in in an LLM, hey, I need to do this. What do I need? How should I do this? And they'll just tell you and then feed it back in. >> Yeah. I guess we should maybe the next step would be to close that loop and me personally be able to give the AI because basically what that person is doing is going to some system, gathering the context. They need to to give it to an LLM to produce the report. But we we we should be able to get to the point where my LLM that I'm using already has that context and I can just ask it directly and then go from one to two days down to minutes. All right. Well, thank you both for contributing so much valuable knowledge and so many insights. If you liked what you heard, I really encourage you to use this QR code or the link in the description to get your very own personalized AI readiness assessment and find out whether or not your business is ready for AI. And not just that, but where to start, how to approach that, and how to avoid some of the common pitfalls. And I'll see you next time.