# Why Building a Second Brain Isnt Enough Anymore Life Update

Published: 2025-09-30

I think living in Mexico is starting to really change us. We wanted the kids to learn Spanish. If we're uh, you know, cooking some food and something drops on the floor, she goes, "No." She's like, "Don't worry about it." I kind of expected my career to slow down. And then I started meeting people in town and one of the people I met, we just started as friends and, you know, played paddle and slowly started to realize that we were both obsessed with AI. something that's been heavily on my mind the past few years. How does the second brain philosophy change in light of AI, the deeper I go into it, I see that a lot of the preAI ideas and principles and frameworks are not obsolete. They're not. I think AI is having the effect of massively increasing the level of uncertainty in the world. No one knows what's going to happen. [Music] Hey everyone. Around once a year, I like to do these life updates. I think I'll divide it between personal updates and start with those and then move on to business updates. We've been living in Mexico for a year now, which is hard to believe. It's passed by just so fast. Uh we arrived last August just in time for the start of the school year, and now it is August again. And uh it's kind of wild to see both our kids ascend a grade each for the first time because my my daughter, the younger one, was in nursery last year. We spent the summer about 6 weeks in California. Uh we kept our home there uh in Long Beach and and spent a good chunk of the summer there. We just came back to Va de Bravo, which is the midsize town. It's about 100,000 100 to 150,000 people. uh about two or three hours outside of Mexico City and we just returned uh for the start of the new school year after spending about six weeks in California. And those 6 weeks were were definitely the longest trip back home that we've made so far. And it really allowed me to notice the contrast. I think living in Mexico is starting to really change us in a few different ways. The first one I notice is pace of life. things just move much more slowly here. It's not only being in Mexico, it's being, you know, in a smaller town versus in in LA. I noticed this back when we first arrived here is that I was rushing everywhere. That's kind of the American way of life is to be pretty punctual, is to treat time as money, your own and that of others. And so we have a culture that is, you know, you do things on time, you do things quickly, you do things efficiently. And this this whole year, it's it's amazing how difficult that is to sort of deprogram. Even after I knew and I I realized intellectually that nothing in Mexico happens on time and that nothing needs to be particularly fast or efficient, I still found myself, you know, rushing the kids out the door in the morning to school or rushing to arrive at a, you know, a get together on time. Even though I knew in every single case I'll be the first one there. No one will arrive for another hour and I'll just be at the party or the dinner or whatever it is, you know, waiting by myself. Even though I know that and that happens every time, I still find it incredibly difficult to truly let go of a certain relationship to time and a certain relationship to I guess punctuality. And so going back to the US after a year of sort of slowly relaxing that time, that relationship to time, uh I was just kind of taken back at how fast everything was moving. people would often, you know, sort of get really worked up and panicked when things weren't going, you know, according to schedule. Uh whereas in Mexico, that's just not a thing. It's really not a thing. Uh here living in VA, things really just proceed at their own natural pace. And that does mean sometimes you're waiting, but that's really kind of fine, too, because everyone else is used to that. And it's just sort of a built-in expectation around life. The other thing I notice uh the contrast I notice the level of warmth that exists between people in Mexico or at least in uh rural Mexico or small town Mexico. There's a built-in level of trust and therefore warmth between everyone. It's really remarkable. It's really an amazing thing to see. You know, when you walk into a store, it it kind of feels like I don't know how the 1950s must have been. That person is probably the store owner in most cases. It's not a lot of chains. A and they're receiving you. They're welcoming you. They're, you know, they're treating you like a neighbor because they probably are your neighbor and not as a, you know, as a interchangeable customer. Just passing on the street. People say hi to each other. They sort of nod between people at school, you know, between the parents and the kids. uh and and just just in general there is a sort of uh level of I can only describe it as warmth where people always take time for each other. They look each other in the eye. They greet each other. They say goodbye. They ask questions. They care. That has been one of the most surprising contrasts. And then going back to the US, having that reverse culture shock and equal contrast cuz going back there, especially in LA, which is I think one of the least warm places in the US, must be one of the least sort of communal uh parts of the country. Uh where you know you can order order at a restaurant, the person never looks you in the eye. Everything is around convenience culture. You know, the the delivery happens on your on your doorstep. you pass people on the sidewalk and just ignore each other. There's just a a lower level of interconnectedness between people. And that's something I I much prefer here in Mexico. The other thing I'll say about uh this year milestone is we're feeling incredibly connected and part of the community here. As in we feel like we have a lot of friends, probably the most active social life we've had in our in our adult lives. We know uh people all over the town from, you know, the teacher of the swim class to the to the bakery owner to the um to neighbors. We really feel like we've found a community here to an extent that I don't think I even expected. If I compare it, for example, to how we felt in Long Beach, we were in Long Beach for 4 years. And in 4 years we didn't I mean we had a we had a stronger community stronger sense of community here in 3 months a stronger one in 3 months than we had in 4 years in Long Beach. It's just nowhere near the same. What I noticed about this is how incredibly rare that is in today's world and how valuable how rare and valuable. Um the only other place that I can say I really felt this level of community was in the San Francisco Bay area where me and my my wife Lauren met. And I think that was because that was the first stage of our careers. So we were sort of undergoing this this trial, this tribulation at a time in our lives where we were had just arrived in the city, didn't have friends, and and everyone else around us was in the same boat. It was a really unique situation, but I think it's incredibly rare and and precious, and there's there's very specific reasons for it. uh which almost makes me want to start thinking of a a framework or you know a strategy that you could have for building community but for example um the fact that we have the school the school is crucial um most of our community comes from the school and it's funny I noticed that's something as a digital nomad you really don't have or as you know a typical expat if you move as a single person or a couple to a country uh and you don't have kids sure there's other major, you know, advantages of that. But one thing that's, I think, significantly harder to do is to find a community like that to plug into. The school is really the perfect one. What you have here is a very very unique situation post pandemic which is all these families that are kind of similar you know socioeconomic class similar education similar kind of interests most of them from Mexico City but also from other cities in Mexico and even other countries now who all arrived around the same time in the in in the same few year period and therefore need friends they are looking for a social circle they're open to you know to building community where it didn't exist for um that's something very different uh for example from Mexico City where all the social circles are very are kind of already formed and kind of closed. Uh many people who who grew up there have been in the same school since they were little kids and so we found we found it quite difficult when we lived in Mexico City to to kind of make new friends. Yeah, I don't know if you can replicate many of those factors elsewhere. It's quite a bit of luck, quite a bit of serendipity uh involved. But I think what I would say is uh in terms of what's been surprising is the speed and the level at which we've integrated here and how at home we feel here returning from Long Beach to the US uh last week. I mean I just felt very very much like I was returning home from you know a long trip from a long trip abroad which is how the US feels now. One of the other common questions I've received is about the kids language. So, the original intention, the original reason we moved here, there were actually a variety of reasons, but the main one I'd say is we wanted the kids to learn Spanish. We wanted our two kids, uh, they're four and two, Caillou and Dea. We wanted them to not just learn Spanish, but learn it well, learn it natively, and also all the surrounding culture. You know, a language is really the centerpiece of a culture. And we wanted them to be connected to their own Mexican heritage since my wife is Mexican-American and to know what Mexico is and to really feel it in their bones. And we knew both my wife and I speak both Spanish and Portuguese, but not completely fluently, definitely not natively. And that's always been kind of a source of frustration and pain for both of us. uh and so we wanted to give our kids this precious gift which is to speak a uh you know another language and a lang a language that is a part of them from the earliest years and I can say that has been very successful in fact I've I've just been amazed at how quickly I knew it was going to happen quickly but the speed with which these kids have learned Spanish is astonishing it's just astonishing I mean we've been here a year but really probably three of those months we were traveling elsewhere either in the US or other places. So, it's really just 9 months 9 months of immersion and they they're speaking not just words but full sentences uh constructing entirely new sentences that actually maybe are not 100% grammatically correct but make sense and people can understand them. Um I think I think even more importantly though is their accents are excellent. uh they still do have an accent, an American accent, but I can see in another year or two that's going to disappear. They're going to speak like a like a via like someone from here. And then what I also notice is their mannerisms, especially my daughter. My daughter is very expressive. She's two. And the way the little movements of her hands and her little facial expressions and her little her attitude is so Mexican, you know, like if we're if we're uh you know, cooking some food and something drops on the floor, she goes, "No." She's like, "Don't worry about it." In a way that is so classically quintessentially Mexican. It just brings me so much joy and makes us, my wife and I just laugh out loud. We find it so so funny to hear these kids be so Mexican in the way that they are. It's just really really gratifying. And that's something that just could never happen without immersion, without living here. On the other hand, um our own fluency, I'd say, has improved a bit, maybe moderately. I noticed that my wife and I, our vocabularies are expanding as we get exposure to to the language, uh to Spanish, and we're getting faster and more fluid. So, for example, I can kind of hold a normal everyday conversation much more easily. Kind of like staying in the flow, not having to stop, not having to ask a question, how to say something. And that's that's a result of living here. Although although I'd say my wife and I really probably only have maybe like 10 or 20% of our time uh of our words spoken is in Spanish, unfortunately. And that's because we're mostly with each other speaking English or we are working which is in English or we're talking with uh our friends and family back home on the phone or Zoom or whatever which is in English. So the only time that we are really speaking Spanish besides like small interactions with storekeepers or people on the street or neighbors is um is hanging out with Mexican friends. Although even that is a challenge we've noticed because everyone here speaks English, especially this socioeconomic class, they they speak perfectly fluent English. Like it's it's amazing. Most of them have lived in the US or worked in the US or studied in the US. They often do business today every day in in English or or part of the day. And so it's really hard. part I've noticed even if you really want to speak Spanish and they their native language is Spanish and they know you want to speak Spanish even then like I think the the default with between any two people is to default to whichever language you both speak the best and with most other adults here we both speak English much better than our half of the conversation speak Spanish. So unfortunately, I'd say our our Spanish has not improved as much as I'd hoped. So the last personal update is just the main open question that's on my mind these days, which has to do with this idea of the golden window. My friend Kee has this idea uh that he's talked about and I think written about that when you have kids, this is really all about kids. You have this golden window that is more or less the first decade of their life. You have this decade for each kid in which you are their entire world. They're obsessed with you. They can't get enough of you. They want to spend every minute with you. They just want your your attention is the most valuable thing in the world. They think you're the so cool and interesting and fun. They want to mimic you. They want to go everywhere with you. They want to do everything that you do. They're just you are their world for this 10-year period. I think in in his case, I think he has I think his oldest daughter is around 10, maybe 11, 12, around there. and he already notices that this this distinct shift which is that uh she now doesn't necessarily want to spend the weekend with her parents and her her sister. She doesn't necessarily want to go on family vacations. She doesn't necessarily, you know, she she wants to hang out with her friends. Basically his advice uh based on that idea is to really treat it as this golden window, this golden opportunity, this relatively short period of time where that is the case where that your connection with this child is is at its strongest in many ways or as is at its most intimate. And so taking that idea to myself, I'm really kind of obsessed with thinking about these next, let's call them like, you know, 10 to 12 or 10 to 14, 10 to 15 years. And being so intentional about how I want to spend them, not leaving it to chance, not letting the routine just kind of, you know, take us through the years where suddenly we look back and realize, oh my gosh, where did those years go? not reaching their teenage years and feeling I mean this is this is the most important is I do not want to reach their teenage years and think oh we really missed our chance we missed the opportunity that was their childhood that's I I can't imagine a worse regret to have in life and so part of the reason to move here to Mexico actually was us just thinking wait a minute so they're they're quite young we have the ability now to move anywhere we want so let's just let's just go for it now that we're here I'm thinking about the future and realizing for us to really accomplish our intention here, which is to really have them feel and be Mexican and speak like a like a like a Mexican, we need more time. This year just flashed by. I have a feeling the next year is going to fly by. And I'm now thinking we really need something more like four to 5 years. So our kids, so my do my my son will have been here from 4 to 8 or 9 and my daughter from 2 years old to uh 6 or 7. And that's kind of amazing because I first of all cannot even imagine my kids being you know 7 and 9. That feels like so far in the future but it's really not. And then I have this other idea which is everything that we're doing here in VA in Mexico I want to do in Brazil. In fact, as time passes, that desire is becoming stronger and stronger because they have their Mexican heritage on their mom's side, but on my side is the Brazilian heritage. And I'm so utterly determined that they not lose that, that they have just as strong of a connection with their Brazilian side as their Mexican side, which then tells me we got to do this all again. We've got to rerun the template on this time in Brazil. But then I that brings up other questions like okay well if we then spend another four to five years in Brazil that takes us until they're like 13 and 15 something like that which is now the end of the golden window. So now I'm thinking wow if I sort of follow through on this I guess it's a plan uh we are going to spend half of their upbringing in Mexico and half in Brazil. And I'm kind of okay with that. That's actually awesome. Um, my only my only I guess it's a concern or worry is I guess there's there's really just one which is their connection to the US and really not the US, it's really to our families. I really kind of wonder if we are robbing them of closer relationships with their grandparents, with their cousins, their aunts and uncles, which is just as important. I mean, it's important to be connected to a culture, but it's even more important or just as important to be connected to specific people. And so, I'm kind of trying to figure out how to navigate that, how to square that. I don't know if that means we come back often, we come back multiple times a year during that entire period, or whether we cut it short and move back to the US at some point, maybe high school, something like that. Because I do think it's valuable for them to have some time in the US. the US does have some important perspectives and skills and opportunities to impart um and I want them to have access to those as well. So maybe this is a very particular uh thing to worry about for me. But basically how to balance their access my my kids access and my exposure to each of these influences and these people and these cultures and these languages is one of the main things on my mind these days. If you have any thoughts on that, any advice, any experiences that might be relevant, anything that you see in what I'm saying that that I'm I'm maybe not taking into account or not seeing, I would love for you to tell me in the comments. And now for business updates. So, first one is on the book. So much time has passed already. It's kind of it's kind of wild how extended in time uh a book of this kind is. I started working on the proposal January 2024. I have just signed my next major book project. This will be my third traditionally published book. I don't yet have a title or a cover or anything like that. I'm just at the very very beginning stages. Uh sold it to my publisher in I think it finalized in April 2024. So from then until now, that's about 18 months. I've just been researching basically researching and then the past 6 months of those 18 months have been writing. Uh I'm close to finishing. I need to turn in the manuscript in the next few months before the end of the year for sure. Uh because then the whole publishing machine will have one full year uh before it's published in late 2026 in time for the annual review season, which is the holiday period. It's close. It's getting there and you'll soon be hearing more about it. It's also been a it's been a surprisingly challenging maybe it shouldn't have been a surprise but I think mostly around how to frame and how to explain this process. I have no doubts about the value of the process the the practice called an annual review. In fact, as I've gone and studied examples throughout history and other cultures and studied how famous people or influential people or, you know, very successful people do annual type practices, I'm I'm just so completely certain that this this practice, this tool of the annual review is one of the missing pieces in I I don't even want to say modern business or modern success, but in modern life, it's just it's the it's a lynch pin. It's a cornerstone of what it means to live an intentional and meaningful and yes successful life. I don't know how people do it. How do you how do you live intentionally and strategically without you know on a yearly basis or some other period some other cycle stepping back from the your daily concerns and thinking about things like your purpose, your vision, your values, your principles, how all those things are evolving over time. I really I really I mean especially this is where AI is coming in as well. I think AI is having the effect of massively increasing the level of uncertainty in the world. Whether you believe it's the best thing ever or the worst thing ever or you think it's going to you know change the whole world next month or never it at at the very minimum it is increasing the level of uncertainty. People don't know. No one knows what's going to happen technologically but also related to that socially, politically, culturally, uh in terms of the climate, in terms of even other kinds of technology outside of AI like bioengineering, etc. We really don't know. And the funny thing about uncertainty, there's that that famous quote, plans are useless, but planning is indispensable. You know, you you might think, oh, we don't know the what what the future holds. We don't know what's going to happen. Then we shouldn't plan. what's the point of planning? But that's it's the opposite. Planning is all the more important. Planning you can think of as preparation. You can think of it as uh as considering and preparing for a wider range of possibilities so that whatever happens, whatever scenario arrives, you are prepared that you can do. And that's kind of how I think of an annual review. It is a strategic repeatable protocol that you can run that an individual can run on themselves by themselves with themselves to take in all the information externally and then all the information internally bring all that together with the also with the help of AI by the way even in the process and arrive at a variety of things. Sometimes you arrive at very clear decisions we're going to pursue you know this business opportunity versus that one. Sometimes you arrive at identity shifts. Oh, I'm no longer this. I'm that. Sometimes you arrive at often at amazing realizations where you realize you wanted something you didn't realize you wanted or you realize you didn't want something that you thought you wanted. Like all these, I guess you could call them like epiphies, mindset shift, realizations and learnings. All of that is going to be far more important every single year that passes. Uh because if you don't do it, you're just going to sort of be uh washed and swayed back and forth by events, you know, the events of the world, the events of your surroundings. Coming back to what I was saying, how to explain that, this is always the hardest part of a book, you know, it's like this balance of uh you know, I want to make it substantial and substantive and a it's it's an endeavor. You know, it takes real time and effort and energy. you have to push other things aside to to do this thing called an annual review. But at the same time, I want to make it practical and maybe not easy, but at least easier and approachable. Otherwise, there's no point in writing a book that's going to be distributed around the world. So, that's one tension. Another tension is like, and this is the most common push back I've received already, is is why annual? Like people either say, "Well, you actually need to do it much more often than that." And annually is way too infrequent to make a difference. Or they say uh they push back against the idea that you should do this like at the end of the year like December or January because they're already so busy and they just want to take a vacation. They just want to relax. And my answer to both of those is for this objection over here, yeah, do it as often as you want. There's absolutely no rule that says no. only once a year, every year, and only once a year. And on this side, um I would say do it whenever makes sense for you, right? So, I'm trying to build in that kind of flexibility and ability to customize it. Um but not too much of that because if you just give people too many options, and you say, oh, you know, choose your own adventure, mix and match, do whatever feels right, that I've really learned that it really does not work. People want to be told exactly what to do. They want stepby-step instructions that cannot be messed up. So that's another tension is like flexibility versus pres prescriptions which is often you know what people actually want and need. So I'm making progress on those uh obstacles. Don't worry. Uh if you want to know how I end up resolving them, I really encourage you to look out for my uh my book launch next year. Uh but that is the update on the book. The other major business update has to do with a new course that we launched this week called Second Brain Enterprise. This has been the elephant in the room this year. By far the biggest project that we took on or that I was involved in this year. And I want to to talk about it a little bit and and tell you how it came about. So it started um early this year or late last year, late 2024, early 2025. We had moved here to VA in Mexico the previous August. And you know what's funny is I I kind of expected my career to slow down or my business to slow down uh here in Vaya. I thought, you know what, moving to this small town, it's in the country, it's Mexico, I'm definitely going to slow down. I'm going to take things easy. I'm just going to I'm going to live this kind of uh bucolic uh lifestyle of an author. take long walks in the forest with my journal, you know, had this kind of romantic vision. And then I started meeting people in town and playing paddle every Friday, paddle ball um at a local court here that just opened. And one of the people I met through paddle, who I'd actually been introduced to, uh through a mutual friend, uh his name is Hayden. He's a Canadian serial entrepreneur uh who has lived in VIA part of the year for over 20 years. So as close to a local as you find here, at least for a foreigner. He has a a a variety of different businesses across both both brickandmortar and digital businesses. A long long career, 20 plus years as an entrepreneur and business owner. And we just started as friends and you know played paddle and slowly started to realize that we were both obsessed with AI. We both were spending much of our time learning about AI, experimenting with it, playing with it, you know, trying to get it to work for us and our businesses. And so around uh I want to say April, we just sat down and had a conversation and said, "Let's try teaching a course." Both of our companies, our main companies are education companies. We're both inherently thinkers and researchers, but also teachers and communicators. You know, almost on a on a whim, we had no more than like two or three conversations about it. We put together uh you know in a very quick and dirty way a sales page and some sales emails and we both have existing audiences so it was pretty easy and uh we sold out 50 spots in the first cohort of a a program that is now called second brain enterprise and we thought of as thought of it as an experiment. It was just a trial. It was about 5 weeks long. We took 50 business owners and senior leaders through a curriculum that we created around looking at how AI can impact positively every single major function in their business. So each week we just go through those functions operations and marketing and HR people and uh product and uh customer success one after the other. There are just incredibly lowlying opportunities in every single one of those areas. It's just kind of just kind of mind-blowing. And then we we uh we we finished that cohort. We sold out the following cohort, another 50 companies ranging from soloreneurs, like one or two people companies to multi,000 person companies doing a billion dollars plus in turnover. So the range is incredible that this the widest range you can imagine. and from every industry from digital, you know, service industries, uh, information products all the way to heavy manufacturing, agriculture, stuff like that. Now, we're currently doing the second cohort. It's going to finish in a week or two. So, we have now just a few short months later worked with in some capacity about 100 companies, 100 businesses of all shapes and sizes from all over the world, from a couple dozen different industries and fields. uh on integrating AI into how they operate. That is a kind of remarkable fact for me. Not just how fast it happened and how naturally this whole experiment came together, but how well it succeeded. We we've had just outstanding results. Uh an NPS, a net promoter score of 75, which is practically unheard of. Uh 0% refund rate. Not a single person in this second cohort asked for a refund, which again is almost unheard of. And I'm taking it all as just a strong signal uh that of of course AI is very promising, which we already knew, but that people want it. People and especially business owners and business operators are hungry for it. They're desperately hungry for it, in fact. Um that there's not a lot of good options out there. Most of the options out there are like these cheap self-paced courses that leave it more or less up to you or it's consulting where you really have to get into this really bespoke, you know, back and forth process with with someone and you're kind of, you know, hoping that they specifically can solve all your problems or you're running AI pilots that fail most of the time because you just don't have the right starting assumptions. I I really believe I feel that we have a very strong alternative to all those and the the results kind of speak for themselves and we're going to continue doubling down on that and pursuing this opportunity which is essentially B2B AI education. I wanted to share a couple uh I guess surprises or uh unexpected insights from the whole enterprise enterprise. one comes from the program itself and it's just something we've learned you know going through these two cohorts which is that for a company to really truly adopt AI at the deepest level to have to not just adopt AI but to have their business transformed by AI they have to be process first they have to be a processdriven a processoriented business what that means is they do what they do whether it's a product or service or whatever it is, not through the personal expertise of the founder or really any people or you know any person or group of people. It's not based on tribal knowledge that's informal and tacit that only lives in people's heads. It's not this like mysterious magic, you know, how it happens. No, the the value that the business delivers has to be delivered primarily by processes. processes that are documented, that are updated and and up to-date, that are actually followed, you know, that aren't just this like uh smokes, this kind of facade um that can be operated and maintained and improved by different people that are somewhat interchangeable. It's basically all the things that you would look at if you were going to acquire a business. If you're going to acquire a business, you don't want there to be any tacet knowledge. You want everything to be written down and documented so that when the previous owner leaves and you take over, you can operate that machine the same way or even better than the previous owner did. And so what we're finding as we pursue that insight is most companies are not process driven. It's a rare thing. It's quite rare for companies of all sizes. um past a certain size maybe 50 people or so you kind of have to be process driven to go much beyond that. So as the companies get bigger that becomes more likely but then they they sort of encounter other problems but among I'd say small businesses which are most of the businesses that we work with are like one to 50 people somewhere in there they are in no way prepared to integrate AI deeply because they don't have their processes or if they have their processes they're not up to date or if they're not up to date they're not followed or if they're not followed you know there's there's some level at which they're not process driven and so paradoxically We have to start there. We have to start and this is what what we do is much of what we do in the program is document their existing processes systematize them and improve them. So, so first of all that is a preAI endeavor right preai you had to do the same thing and it's not easy. It's not just sit down and oh this is the process we follow. No, you have to really think about it. You have to spend a lot of time pulling knowledge out of people's heads. A lot of time and energy checking to make sure that that's the process you follow. Then you have to train people on the process and then measure the process and enforce compliance to the process. It's really enormous. Which is another reason that in the past preAI that kind of process culture was limited to large companies. If you didn't have, you know, few hundred people, you just could not afford the bandwidth it took to to to do all that. Luckily, it's not just like, oh, go off and do that and then one day when you're finished, go and see how AI can help. AI itself can help you do that. It can help you make that jump from a tacit knowledge culture to a documented culture. And the way that looks is you sit down with an LLM like Claude is the one we recommend. And we have a very specific prompt we use for this. But you collaborate back and forth iteratively back and forth many times through many versions to create that process to basically pull the knowledge out of your head and the heads of others and then to stress test it work with AI to see how it could be condensed how it could be broken into stages how certain steps could be eliminated or automated entirely. There's a lot you can do. Um but you you can almost think of enterprise, you know, maybe half of it as a a accelerated AI assisted crash course in in rapidly much faster than would otherwise be possible. Uh making the leap to a process-driven enterprise, a process-driven culture is what I would say. And then the other half is like all the things that that enables. All the incredible opportunities for speeding things up to to an to a extreme degree to growing your bottom line or topline uh without growing headcount to automating things which is what people largely get excited about. You know I automated this 12step dun that is a relatively advanced later stage thing that happens. And then the other thing that I've learned um and this has to do with a question that someone sent in which is how does the second brain philosophy change in light of AI something that's been heavily on my mind the past few years. So when Chad Gi GPT first came out, maybe when GPT3 came out, I would say, and it became clear how powerful this would become, I right away, my first assumption was, oh, this is a new era, a new paradigm, and probably all the building a second brain content is obsolete. It's kind of it's kind of funny how quickly I accepted that reality. I was like, oh no, everything we've done, that's the old paradigm. let's go to the new paradigm. You know, just to be specific, I assumed that taking notes would become much less important because AI can, you know, search and access all these uh bodies of knowledge online and offline and do the equivalent for you. I assumed that organizing would be organizing information at least would be completely obsolete. Who's going to be sorting things into files and folders when you have AI that can instantly search it all? uh I thought that uh highlighting and progressively summarizing would be obsolete. I thought that the the creative process which I call code would have to change radically. But I guess the other surprise as we've uh you know launched what is really our first AIcentric uh product which is second brain enterprise I've been so surprised and kind of shocked at a couple things. One is that the deeper I go into it, I see that a lot of the pre-AII ideas and principles and frameworks are not obsolete. They're not. The world has not changed quite as much as the AI, you know, hype men will have you believe. Many, I would even say most of those uh preAI ideas still apply. you know, distillation is still just as important. Divergence and convergence, uh, organizing according to actionability, capturing what resonates, like almost any principle you can think of from from my books, uh, remains. Now, the way that you that you apply them that you that you implement them might have changed, but I've been very very taken aback at how this new AI paradigm, I would say, builds on and extends and evolves the preAI knowledge management, personal knowledge management concepts rather than just replacing them, which in retrospect I should have known. That's what's always happened. The new paradigm never replaces the old paradigm wholesale, at least not instantly. it builds on it. It's like another it's like another layer, another archaeological layer that keeps getting added on top. So what am I doing as a result? Uh so you see this this point of view in the fact that we call it a second brain enterprise. In many ways what AI is allowing us to do is build a second brain, a centralized repository of your most valuable information, knowledge, insights, etc. But at the company level, right? Right. It can also be done at the personal level. Absolutely. We just happen to be focused on the company level. It's made it 100 times easier and faster and more leveraged I would say in just the span of a few years. I think what we're going to do is just pivot the brand. Right? This in retrospect I guess this this is obvious and you may be thinking well of course this is what you would do but we have so much existing uh IP trademarks existing books mountain of content the whole ecosystem of content a whole network we've created around the second brand idea and it's so hard to build a you know a a real brand uh in the modern world that instead of trying to come up with something brand new I think we're just going to pivot what a second brain means from the previous definition which is a you know digitally enhanced but still quite labor intensive system that you build yourself to an AI second brain which is all of that but greatly accelerated and made more efficient with the power of artificial intelligence. I always do a mid-year review around July where I look six or seven months back to the projects and goals that I set for myself and for us at the start of the year. Uh we'll put a link to that in the description. It was so fascinating uh revisiting those after 6 months. 6 months is such an interesting period of time because it's close enough that you remember the state of mind you were in 6 months ago, right? It's not that far that far in the past. It was pretty recent. So you remember what it was like to be the person who had these hopes and these dreams and these goals, but it's also long enough that you can also see your mistaken assumptions and your blind spots just so crystal clearly, right? You're just like, what what was I thinking? What was I on? What an absurd goal to set for myself. As I was doing that a few weeks ago, uh I saw that I had declared 2025 the year of profitability for the company. I kind I had kind of forgotten about this to be honest because I tend not to think of the finances too much but we had had the worst year ever financially in 2024 as a company. We'd lost money as a company for the first time ever. And so I started 2025 thinking we really need to give attention to our profitability. And so revisiting that and then looking at our finances uh I can say that that is very very much on track mostly due to the two cohorts of second brain enterprise that we've launched which which together made around a million dollars. Of course nowhere near all of that is profits. In fact only a small portion of that is profit but even then I think year to date now in August we are at around a 50% profit margin. 50% profit which is just fantastic. It is beyond my expectations and I think with the upcoming launches and other plans that we have for the last few months of the year, the last few months of the year tend to be quite strong. You know, you have Black Friday and annual review season and all that. So, I expect that to be maintained or even improve. So, congratulations to us. We managed to fulfill on our declaration of the year of profitability. My last uh my last update, I recently published a blog post describing uh my first psilocybin assisted therapy session. Uh you can you can read it. I'll put the link in the the description. I tell the full story of what it was like, everything I did, everything I learned and experienced. It was an incredibly profound experience. One of the most meaningful experiences of my life without a doubt. It's now been two months, I think around two months, and I I noticed all kinds of benefits and interesting new ways of being that I have access to, which you can read about in the blog post. The thing I noticed now too is that I think psilocybin more or less kind of dissolved my ambition, which is a funny thing to say. It's a it's a funny and kind of uncomfortable thing to say because ambition uh has been a very core part of my identity for a long time. I mean that's why I decided to become an entrepreneur. That's why I decided to pursue the goals that I have. Also, that's the subject matter, right? We're we're uh presumably teaching you how to be more productive, more effective, more creative. Those are all ambitious things. They aren't normal things to do. So part of me feels like uh you know not sure I should be admitting that I no longer feel ambitious. It's it's not exactly that I have no ambition. It's the form that ambition takes. What I've noticed just even these past couple months is that these there are certain moments where I feel like I have to prove myself or at least there were in the past. you know, someone will sort of underestimate me or they'll say, "Oh, I don't think you can do that." Or they'll criticize my idea or I'll just develop some insecurity or I'll be jealous of something that someone else has achieved. And that little thing will come up inside me like, "No, you'll prove them wrong. You're going to prove yourself. You're going to prove that you can do it." That little whatever that thing is is like kind of dissolved. It's not there anymore. I don't feel the need to like prove that I am something or that I can do something or that I'm better than someone like that's that's gone that source of ambition. What I notice is also the form that the the ambition can take in the past, such as in my 20s and 30s, my my success anytime I I found success, it was due to heavy lifts andor deep work, which are kind of the same thing, right? It was like, oh, this is the thing I'm going to do. I'm going to write this book. I'm going to launch this course. I'm going to do this other thing. And it was like, okay, I know what I'm signing up for. I'm signing up for long hours, late nights, working through the weekend. I know I'm going to suffer. I know I'm going to lack sleep. I know I'm going to probably burn out a little bit. I'm going to overdo it. I'm going to push my mind and body or both beyond its limits or beyond its normal functioning. Uh, and I'm going to have, you know, painful consequences because of that. That was just the normal. That's what I thought it it meant to be ambitious. That's what I thought it meant to be an entrepreneur and to be successful. They didn't know another way. But now I think through psilocybin and and just in general the different I've explored a range of personal development uh modalities over the last 10 or 15 years uh which you can read about on the blog. We have a whole category under personal growth I think or personal development. What I noticed now as I turned 40 a few months ago is that heavy lifts and deep work don't work anymore or at least they don't work for me or I'm not willing to undergo them or they're not viable and sustainable for me. Uh in fact even even when I sort of try to do them a little bit I just don't have I don't have this the energy the stamina the the pain tolerance the ability to go without sleep. I mean, part of that is just aging, of course, but also I'm just not willing to, you know, for for any amount of money to disrupt my lifestyle, to make me, you know, more anxious and stressed, uh, to make me less present with the kids and with my wife. Um, I'm basically done with all those kinds of trade-offs. I will not allow I will not take on anything in in my work that is going to impact my personal life, which is a is just a radical departure from the past. Um, and and part of it, of course, is the fact that I I did those heavy lifts many times in the past, created a certain financial situation, a certain financial security that, yes, allows me to kind of take it easy a little bit. But I would say I'm very happy with this change. It makes me, of course, happier, less stressed, sleep better, more connected to my family, my friends, my the environment, everything. But it's also more fun, you know, like to create success not through brute force, but through almost more like being a conductor or orchestrator is kind of how I see myself now. It's like I now have, you know, a network and I have relationships and I have assets and I have a reputation. I have enough of these, you could call them, I guess, assets that I can sort of just pick and choose and mix and match and and in no time at all seemingly and with relatively little effort put them together into a new configuration and suddenly all this new value is unlocked. I mean, Second Brain Enterprise is that it was just a coming together of different existing pieces, mine and Haydens, to allow this amazing thing to exist in the blink of an eye. And I'm really really interested in continuing to develop that capability, the capability of creating value, not through brute force or or sheer effort, but through things like taste and uh persuasion and uh connecting the right people to each other and building community such as I'm doing with my mastermind that I do every year. Um, these are all ways of being more of an orchestrator and conductor rather than a doer. And that's it. That's it. Thank you for uh listening, indulging me. It really is indulging me on this wide-ranging adventure through the uh the uh very odd quarters of my mind. But uh I hope that this is helpful to you somehow. Maybe in seeing your own life, your own circumstances more clearly. Maybe uh you will face similar challenges or opportunities as me in the future or maybe you have in the past. I hope that in some way this has been helpful and in turn I would ask uh something from you. Do you have an observation? Something in what I've said over the last however many minutes this is, uh, that you want to reflect back to me that you thought was especially either meaningful or important or interesting or feel free to tell me what, and you always do, what didn't make sense or was contradictory or was just plain stupid. Uh, I'm here for all of it. And if you especially have any words of wisdom or words of advice or um a story of how you overcame a similar situation in your life or your work or business, I'd love to hear it. Go ahead and leave that in the comments below. Thank you.