# Flux 2.0 vs all other models Blind Test

Published: 2025-11-28

Flux 2 is here friend and in this video we will compare it side by side to a few other models in the market. Mjourney Nano Banana Pro Cream 4 and Corora Pro. Before we start, here's what's new with Flux 2. Multi-reference support. It allows you to upload up to 10 reference images simultaneously with the best character product style consistency available today. It generates details, sharper textures, more stable lighting, suitable for product shots and photography like use cases. Comparing it to Flux One, it allows you to render complex typography, infographics, memes, and UI mockups with legible fine text, so it's now reliable for production. It has improved adherence to complex structured instructions, including multi-art prompts and compositional constraints. I don't know what that means, but essentially better prompt adherence. It is significantly more grounded in real world knowledge. So that means that the context window is larger. It has better lighting, better spatial logic resulting in more coherent scenes with expected behavior. It has a higher resolution and flexible input output ratios. And you can edit images up to 4 megapixel. So it is also an editor, not just an image generator. Think like context, but on steroids. The Flux 2 family covers three main products. We have the Pro, which Black Forest Labs has a state-of-the-art image quality that rivals the best closed models. I'm assuming that they are going to release an open-source version of Flux 2. Then we have Flux 2 Flex. Flux 2 Flex Flux 2 Flex that allows you to take control over the models parameters such as the number of steps, the guidance scale, etc. And last but not least, we have dev, which is the openweight model derived from flux 2 base model. And today we will test flux 2 against 10 different scenarios. Scenario number one, how well is it with skin texture? Scenario number two, props. How good is it with holding objects? Scenario number three, we have the flesh photography test, testing how it does with lighting. Four, we have the full body test, testing how it does with full body dynamics. Five, text and context testing how it does with typography. Six, fabric and consistency test. Seven, background test, where we will test the crowded spaces. Eight, animals. Nine, nature and landscape. And 10, food photography. Flux 2 is supposed to be precise, efficient, and offer extreme realism. At least that's what they say. So today we are doing just that. We're going to be testing for realism and prompt adherence. Does Flux 2 really live to the hype of being state-of-the-art realistic image model, especially now that Nano Banana 2 is out? And to make things fair, I have built an app. This one right here with Gemini 3. I fetted all the prompts, generated everything for me in real time, pulling from all these models, and in there, I will have to rank them and guess which one is which. Well, except midjourney v7 which I had to produce the assets beforehand because I don't have an API to that. What I've done with the app is that I've categorized all these buckets, the 10 buckets and I've fed it the prompts in the back end and we will see together in real time the generations and try to guess which one is flux 2 and rank them from 1 to 10. And by the end of this video, the app will give us an overall score for each image model and rank them based on skin realism, casual iPhone style, complex understanding of the prompt, background consistency, morphin, fine details, depth of field, how it handles text and logos. What we are really testing here is realism. So, let's start with bucket number one. This will be a fun game. Okay, let's start. This is my app. It says, "Trust your eyes." I vibe coded this completely in less than 2 hours. It's going to give us 10 different scenarios so that we can blindly decide which one is which and which one we like best. So, let's begin our evaluation. Um, again, we have 10 buckets over here and we're going to start with our skin texture test. Okay, let's click on it. It's going to start generating a prompt. We're going to wait here for a second. The golden hour freckle. Extreme close-up of a redhead woman's face. Sun hitting directly on one of the sides. Highly detailed natural freckles. visible pores on the nose, golden hour lighting, iris detail visible, unedited raw photo shot on an 85 millimeter lens. Um, and also it gives us what to watch for. It says, "Do the freckles look like they are under the skin or painted on top? Look for scattering, a slightly reddish glow on the ears or nose where the light hits." Great. So now we're going to initiate our generation. It gives us five different scenario. Not five different scenarios, five different images. image A, B, C, D, and E. And once these are generated, we're going to rank them based on what we feel like how how did it do uh with skin texture, with hands and body, with photo realism, with a lens, with text, typography, when there's text and typography, uh with prompt, with a scene logic, and the overall aesthetic. So here we have overall our images. We can click so that we can expand and take a look at the details closer. Now let's start. Wow, this is good. The very first thing that I'm going to say here is that I believe that this is image B is majority just because it looks a bit more I don't know cartoonish. I'm going to rank this. We can expand. I'm going to give the skin texture a three. I'm going to leave hands and body the same. Five. I mean, it's doing a great job with the face, so we'll say a seven. photo realism and the lens. I mean, this is definitely not photorealistic, so I'm going to give it a two. Prompt and scene logic. I mean, it's doing a good job. So, I'll I'll give this an eight. The overall aesthetic, I'll give this a three. Yeah, it's not it's not it's not my favorite. Um, we're going to go with image number one. The skin and the texture, it does look quite realistic to me. It looks like low fidelity type of image. I'm going to give this a eight. Doing a great great job with a face. So, we'll give it an eight, too. The photo realism and the lens. So, this is very photorealistic. However, um h this is an 85 mm lens. I don't think it's doing a good job with that. So, I'll give it a six. Prompt and scene logic. I'll give it a six. The overall aesthetic, I like this aesthetic. So, I will give this a seven. Image C. Look at this. This is so sharp. Okay. Skin texture. I'll give this a nine. The photo realism and the lens. Let's look at it one more time. Does this look like an 85 mm? I think it does. Maybe not. Maybe. Definitely. I'll give this like a seven. Prompt and scene logic. I'll give this a seven. The overall aesthetic, I like this. I'll give this a seven, too. Image D. Oh, this is nice. H the skin texture definitely I'll give this like a nine. You can see all these details. Photo realism in the lens 85. Is this photo realistic? Would I think that this is a real photograph? H I'll give this a six. I'm not quite sure about it. The overall aesthetic. Do I like this? I think that this might be too close up for my liking even though it is a 85 mm lens. Um, I'll give this a six. Last but not least, image E. Okay, this is a good We do see a lot of details on her skin. We see like little hairs that she has. Uh, over here we do see that the freckles are under her face, so they do not look like they are painted. This one here, not quite sure. Definitely image E I think has the most realistic freckles. Maybe image D does too. Okay, this gets very It will get harder as it goes. Um I think I'm going to rank the skin texture eight. Photo realism and the lens we'll say like a seven. Still I think it's a bit desaturated too. Everything is tinted yellow. Uh so maybe let's say six. The overall aesthetic I don't really like it. I will say a four. prompt and scene logic. I'll give this a seven. Now, which one is flux 2? Hm. I think it's I think it might be D cuz this is very sharp. Haven't seen anything like this from all the other image models. Or could be E. Why? Because I know that Flux, especially Flux Korea, it does have this yellow tint to it. Probably this one is Nano Banana. This one could be Cream 4. And this is for sure Korea Pro. I can tell from the from the style of the image. It does look like it was taken on an iPhone. Let's reveal the names. Oh, this is Mid Journey. Wow, this is great. Um, I'm shocked. And this is Flux 2. Okay, this is Flux 2. This is Cororup Row. This is Cream 4. I I I think Did I guess this right? And this is Nano Banana Pro. Definitely Nano Banana I think is the best. Then I would say Kora Probably Midjourney then Flux then Cream 4. Next scenario. Wow, I was not expecting that. The post-workout sweat. A micro shot of a fitness influencer after a workout. What to look for? Does this sweat look like individual water droplets, which is a pass, or like a layer of clear gel slime, which is a fail? Let's go. By the way, look at how horrible the weather is here in Canada. I need to escape as soon as I can. Okay. Okay. Okay. Let's look at this one. This is Kora Pro. I can tell. Does the sweat look like individual water droplet here? Individual water droplets here. or does it look like a layer of gel or slime? I mean, I'm not quite sure. Maybe like bit of both. The only thing that's throwing me off is this area over here, which is a bit too intense. I don't think that you can have so much density of sweat in a single region. If I remove this section here, I would think that she is, I don't know, like just taking a shower. Not sure if she's sweating. Image B, it does look like water drops. Not sure if she's sweating, but again, some people can sweat a lot. Image C, it has a way more accurate representation of what sweating looks like at the gym. Image D, this is way too cinematic and it does look a bit like AI and the sweat might look like slime or gel a tiny bit. Image E. Okay, what's going on here? There's no way someone can sweat like this. Definitely a pass. Okay, so let's rank them. Let's reveal the names. Yeah, I got this is mid Journey. Then we have Cream 4, we have Nano Banana Pro, we have Coror Pro, and then we have Flux 2. So this is Flux 2. Do we like this? Is this the most realistic image model that you can compare to what's out there in the market? Are the claims that Black Forest Labs is making true? It's at least for this particular use case. We haven't even started yet. I think it's doing a good job. If this is a similar quality to what you get from the open- source version, this is great for me. Image C, image A, image B, image D, then image E. I think that seedream and midjourney are my least favorite when it comes to skin texture. The no makeup morning light close-up of a woman just waking up. Messy hair, puffy eyes. What do we look for? Does she look like she has some foundation on? You want actual skin redness and puffiness. So, let's generate the image. I'm going to try and be quick here. We have a lot of images to go through. Image A. Let's take a look at this. The skin looks sharp. She looks like she's just waking up. There's no redness though, but there's no invisible makeup. It does look realistic. Image B. What the hell is going on here? I'm sorry, but what is this? I don't want to be rude, but like, girl, you're sick. Get some medication. Kidding. The skin texture. Yes, it's good. We'll give it a six. Photo realism lens. I don't know what this is. I'll give it a six. But the prompt and the scene logic, I'll give this a like three. Like, what? The adherance is not here at all. The overall aesthetic, I'll give this a three. Image C. Okay. Does it look like she has foundation on? A bit. A tiny bit here. Four. Three. The overall aesthetic three. Image D. Oh, it has a mark. What about here? Does it look like she has foundation on? I mean, tiny bit, but not necessarily. I like the redness of the face. I like the fact that there's a mark. Seven. Eight. The overall aesthetic, I'll give this seven. Promising and logic. I'll give this a seven. And image E, this is probably Sedream. Six. Five. The overall aesthetic. I mean, it's moody. It looks AI. So, we'll give this a three. Reveal names. See, Corora Pro, Midjourney, Flux, Nana, Banana. Again, for me, I'm going to rank it Nana Banana or Kora Pro. I'm not quite sure which one I like best. I think that in terms of realism, I like Corora Pro because it is giving me the redness around the face. Also, I have the scar. It looks like an iPhone image. Nana banana again is giving me that yellow tint. Flux, which again, this is what we're doing today is we're trying to compare Flux against all the other models. This is a 4 megapixel image. Not quite sure what's happening here. I'm sorry, Flux, you're my least favorite for this particular scenario. And then CD dream number four. This is our last scenario before we move into the next bucket. I'm going to make this quick. The harsh noon sunlight portrait shot under direct sunlight. What to look for? Look at the shadow line on the face. Is it sharp or is it airbrushed? We got this. Okay. Okay. Images are coming through. Oh wow. I like image A quite a lot. The shadows look good. The hair looks good. It does look a bit AI because the skin texture is unified. It's way too perfect. But again, I like this skin, I'm going to say a six. Photo realism lens, I'm going to say a seven. I like it. The prompt scene and the logic here, um, I'll say a seven. The overall aesthetic, I'll leave it at five. Image B, oh wow, the sharpness of the skin is great. I'm going to guess this is Flux 2 based on the tint of the image. Eight, six, seven. The overall aesthetic, I like it. I'm going to give it a seven. Image C probably this is sea dream 4 can tell because of the Asianlook guy skin texture I'll leave it at five photo realism lens uh I'll say three overall aesthetic I don't really like it that much I'll say four image D okay uh this is good looks very realistic I just don't like how it's framed I'm going to say skin texture I like the fact that the skin is not as unified so that we can see small little pimples or pores. So, I'll give this a seven, eight, five. The overall aesthetic, I'll say seven. Image E. Oh, okay. Wait, wait. Image B. I said this might be flux, but actually, this could be flux. I'm not quite sure now. Skin texture. Let's take a look at it one more time. It's a bit too perfect. It could be the lighting. It could be the lighting that's throwing me off. So, I'm going to say the skin texture. I'll give it a six. Do I think this is AI? Well, if my trained eye can tell, but the untrained eye u will probably not be able to tell. I'm going to give this a six. The prompt and the scene logic, um I'll give this a seven. The overall aesthetic, I just don't like the tint. I don't like the lighting. So, I'll give this a four. Reveal the names. This is Flux. This is Nano Banana. So, what I'm realizing as I'm doing this tutorial is that they both have this um a yellow tint going on again. Flux nana banana. And which one is it? This is Midjourney. Wow. It keeps surprising me. This is good. I like this. This is Mjourney V7. And this is Kora Pro. This is Creream 4. Again, let's take a look at Flux. What do we think? How does it compare to the rest of the models? You let me know in the comment section. So, let's evaluate the winner for skin texture. Okay, reveal the results. Nano Banana Pro scores the highest. Then we have Kora Pro. Then we have Flux 2. Then we have Midjourney. Then we have Cream 4. So Flux based again on my liking. This is purely my opinion because I rank the images. You might rank them completely differently. Flex is number three. Nano banana. Nano banana. Nano banana. So great job nano banana. In the next bucket we're testing anatomy and props. The burger grip. A woman holding a large cheeseburger. Both hands about to take a bite. What to watch for. Are the fingers actually denting the bread like the physics or are they floating on top? Check if the thumb is blending into the lettuce. Okay, let's generate and see. In this bucket, we're focusing primarily on anatomy, how the hands are being generated, whether the image is following real laws of physics. Image A. Okay, there's a lot of cheese on the sides of the hands. Are the fingers actually denting the bread? I mean, they're not denting the bread, but the burger is being held correctly. I don't see an issue with this image B. Okay. And here we don't have a woman holding anything. So the prompt in the scene logic this is going to be two. I'm sorry. What? The fingers aren't what the fingers are like sausages. Image C. Okay. H. The very first thing that throws me off. This is definitely not photorealistic. I can tell this is AI. So I'll give this a two. The skin is fine. I'll leave it at five. The hands and the body. I'll leave it at five. The overall aesthetic, I don't like it. I'll give it a two. Image D. Oh, here we go. Look at those hands. They're gripping that burger. They're denting the bread. This is It's good. Definitely giving this one a nine. The skin texture looks good. I'll give this a six. The prompt and the scene logic, I'll give this a nine. the overall aesthetic. Um, I like it. I like it. I'll give this a seven. However, though, there's something that we did not rank, which is text and typography, because we do see text and typography. The first one, text and typography, it's quite good. So, we'll give it a nine. This doesn't have any doesn't have any text and typography. So, we'll leave it at five. Similar to image C. Image D though, the text and typography is not that great. So, we will give it a two image E. Okay, this is looks some sort of this looks like an ad to me. Some sort of McDonald ad. Let's reveal the names of the models. Which one is Flux based on the tone and the tint? You guessed it. I think it's image C. There you go. This is Flux. Am I impressed? And it's very sharp. That I can say. Other than that, there's other models that do a way better job. We have Nano Banana here. We have Corora Pro. I think that Corora Pro for this particular scenario does best, especially because what we're trying to to um watch for here is the hands gripping the burger. So, if you look at Kora Pro, it's gripping the burger. And now, if you look at Nano Banana, it's holding the burger almost with the hands, not necessarily floating, it's just resting in there. The chopstick. This is supposed to be hard. A woman eating sushi holding a chopstick correctly in the right hand gripping a sushi roll. Realistic hand tension. What to watch for? Do the chopsticks merge into the fingers? Are there two sticks or do they just merge into one? Let's generate image A. We have two chopsticks. We have 1 2 3 4 five fingers. We have our sushi rolls here. Looks very good to me. Looks very realistic. Nine. Text and typography. You cannot really see. Um, I'll leave it at five. Prompt into the scene logic. Nine. Overall aesthetic, I really like it. I'll say a nine. Image B, it's not realistic enough. So, I can tell that this is an AI. I'll say three, four, six, eight, seven. Overall aesthetic, I don't like it. I'll give it a two. Image C. Two chopsticks. An eight. An eight. I'll leave it at five or six. Prompt scene and logic, I'll give this an eight. Overall aesthetic, I'll give this a six. Image D. What is happening over here? Okay, this No, no, this is not that great. When it comes to hands and anatomy, I'll say three. Prompt scene logic, I'll say three. Overall aesthetic, I'll say three. Photo realism, well, I mean, it throws it off. I'll leave it at five. Skin texture, leave it at five. And then image E. Okay. One, two, three, four, five. This is good. All the names. Flux two. This is Flux 2. What? Not great. Then we have Cream 4. Quite good. Honestly, I like it. Then we have Nano Banana Pro, Midjourney, of course, and Kora Pro. I think for this one, I like Kora Pro, Nano Banana, Seream 4, Midjourney, and Flux 2. Now let's get our score for anatomy and the props reveal results. We have Kora Pro, Nano, Banana, Cadream 4, Flux 2, and Midjourney. For this scenario, Kora Pro scores at 7 for the best skin texture and 6.3 for the best logic. Overall is at 6.54 and now the Banana is at 6.42. Next bucket, we have flash photography. We have the elevator mirror flash which is a full body mirror selfie inside a metal elevator um flash is firing from the phone. What to look at here would be the flare placement. The bright light must be coming from the phone in the mirror. If the flash is coming from the ceiling, the AI failed the logic test. Man, I haven't slept today. I slept at 5:00 a.m. Not quite sure. I was very anxious and I don't know why. I honestly don't know why, but there are days like that. Okay, here we go. Interesting. Let's take a look at this. Okay, I I I don't know which model is this. Cannot tell, but this is looks good. So, the overall logic, we'll give it nine. Photo realism, we'll give it seven. The hands, one, two, three, four, five. Okay, this is good. We'll give this an eight. Skin texture, I'll give this a six. Image B, the logic is great. Um, however, the overall aesthetic I don't like, so we'll give it a two. The photo realism, I'll give it a three. Skin texture, I'll give this a four. Image C, okay, very sharp. I'll give the overall aesthetic a seven. Seven. Photo realism, seven. Hands and the body, I'll give this an eight. Skin texture, I'll give this a seven. Image D. H. Okay. Seven. Six. Overall aesthetic, I'll give it a six. Prompt and scene logic. I'll give it a seven. Number four. Oh, I guess there's no flash. Ooh. So, this one, the realism is great. So, I'll give this a nine. But failing the logic, so I'll give this a two. The overall aesthetic, I really like it. I'm going to give this a nine. And let's see. 1 2 3 4 five. It's good. So I will give this a eight. Skin texture. Let's take a look at one more time. Looks realistic. Give this a six. Let's reveal the names. Which one do you think is flux 2? 1 2 3 4 5. Let's reveal the names. Oh, image D. Here we go. This is Flux 2. I think it did a good job. I think it did a very good job this time. Then we have Cream 4. Then we have Midjourney. Then we have Nano Banana Pro. Then we have Kora Pro. In terms of realism, I like Kora Pro the best. However, we are testing here the flare placement. So unfortunately, as much as I love Kora, this is going to be ranked last probably. I'm going to say Nano Banana, then Flux 2. Now I'm going to say Sedream, then Midjourney. Next scenario, the paparazzi street walk. A woman walking quietly on a pavement at night. Shielding her eyes with hand harsh direct camera flash. High contrast. Background is dark and underexposed. What to watch for? The shadows on the wall and the ground behind her. With a direct flash, the shadows should be sharp and directly behind the subject. We have image A, image B, image C, and image D. I like image C a lot. Um, it's artsy. I think this is Mjourney, but I really like the overall aesthetic. I'm going to say seven. The shadows. We're looking at the shadows, right? The shadows on the wall ground behind her. We don't really see the shadows, but I think it's doing a good job. So, I'll say a seven. Five. Um, and the hand, I think it's doing a good job. So, we'll say eight. This one over here. Oh, what's happening with her hands? The shadow is great. So, we're looking at the shadow. We're going to say hm promising and logic, I'll give it a nine. Skin texture. Can't really see here cuz it's um oversaturated, but I'll give it a six. Hands, I'll leave it at four. Photo realism, it does look photo realistic, I'll give it a seven. The overall aesthetic, it's nice. I'll give it a seven. This one here, um, okay, look at the shadow. I will say I'll give this a eight. The overall aesthetic I'll leave it at five. Photo realism I would not tell that this is AI. So I will give this a eight. Skin texture we don't really see. I'll leave it at five. Hands and body. Yeah, that's good. I we'll give this a seven. Okay. One, two, three, four, five. The hand is a bit weird. One, two, three, four, five. The shadows. Hm. The very first thing I can say is that it does look real. I'm gonna give this a nine. The overall aesthetic, I love it. So, I'm gonna give this a 10. The promising and the logic though, I'm I leave this at five. The hands and the body, I'm going to leave this at five. The skin texture, I will bring this up to seven. I'm a bit confused. So, now I I will not really be able to tell which one is which. I think that image C is mid Journey, but the rest though, I'm a bit confused. Let's reveal the names. Oh, look at Flux, too. This is great. This does look very realistic. I think that it does look like very low fidelity image taken with um like an old camera like a an iPhone only because of the tint. Like every time you see something yellowish, yes, that's flux. Then we have Nano Banana Cadream 4 midjourney. I'd say nana banana flux midjourney sea dream the birthday cake. What to watch for? Does a smoke look like wisp or gray blob? Also watch for demon eyes. Okay. Oo, this is getting interesting. It's getting good. Um, this one is my journey image B. Does the smoke look like wisp or solid gray bulb? I think it's doing a great job. The overall aesthetic like look at this H. I'm going to say a seven, but I can tell it's AI because it's too smooth. It's a bit too perfect. Image C. Overall aesthetic for logic 7. Oh, this looks realistic. So image D versus image B D they have a similar vibe to it but however D if I saw this scrolling on social media probably I would not necessarily think it's AI maybe it's the maybe it's because the angle is wider um not quite sure I will say the overall aesthetic I like so I'm going to say an eight the prompt and the scene uh and the logic I'll say a Seven. Skin. I'll leave it at five. Photo realism. I'll bring it up to eight. Last one. Oh. Ooh. One, two, three, four. Okay. The fingers are a bit weird. However, however, does look realistic. I would think this would be some sort of a I don't know, Polaroid image. However, it does look realistic. It does look like film. So, I'm going to say h This is tough. I'll say like a nine. Honestly, I don't even know which model is which. So, let's just reveal the names. Look at this. This is Flux 2. Wow, this is great. This is very, very good. Where's Nana Banana? Okay, I could see that. Then we have Cadream 4. Then we have Midjourney. Yes, I could see this too. And then we have Kora Pro. I would rank them as follows. Flux 2, Kora Pro, Nano Banana, Seamream, Midjourney. Now, let's reveal our evaluation result. Who won the flash photography test? Drum roll, please. Kora Pro, Nano, Banana, Cream 4. We have three different models. They kind of rank all very similarly. The highest rated is Kora Pro. The best skin texture is Nano Banana Pro. And the best logic is Catream 4. So that is very interesting. The next bucket we have the full body test. The outfit of the day. Full body shot of a woman standing in a messy bedroom taking a mirror selfie showing the entire outfit. What to watch for? The eyes. When you zoom in, are the eyes symmetrical? This is what we're looking at. The eyes. That's an interesting task. These are all so good. Let's look at the first one. The eyes. Let's see. You can zoom in the eyes. I guess so. Scene logic. We'll give it an eight. Photo realism for sure, a nine. Skin texture, I'll give it a six. Text and typography, that's not what we are doing for this one. Image B. The eyes, okay, it's sharp. Give it a eight. Photo realism, I'll give it a nine. Skin texture, I'll give it the same. For hands and body, maybe the hands look a bit like sausages a tiny tiny bit. Uh, we'll give this a six. Overall aesthetic, I will give this one a six. Image C. Okay, the eyes look good, too. Prompt and the scene logic, give this an eight as well. The only thing that I don't like about this image, I don't know. I think I like it. Looks good to me. The skin texture, I'll give it a seven. Six for hands and body anatomy. I think I like this better than image A and B, to be honest with you. So, I'll give this a 10. There you go. The very first 10. The overall aesthetic, I will give this a 10. I like it. Image D. 1 2 3 4 five. Okay. Oh, the eyes. The eyes. The eyes. No. The scene logic and the prompt, I'll say three. Photo realism, I'll say a six. Skin texture, I'll say a four. Overall aesthetic, I'll leave it at five. Photo realism lens, we set six. Then we have image E. Ooh, this is very sharp. Oh, look at that. The detail, it's crazy. I think that this has the best detail from all the other images. We will bring the prompt and scene logic up to nine. The skin texture, I'll give this an eight. Hints, I'll give this a seven. Photo realism, I'll give this a seven, too. Overall aesthetic, I'll give this a six. Which one is Flux 2 Pro? Let's reveal the names. This one is very hard. Oh, there we go. This is Flux 2 Pro. Wow, this looks very good. Then we have Kora Pro, Nano, Banana, Sea Dream 4, Midjourney. I'll rank them as Flux being my favorite. Then Kora, Nano, Seream, and Midjourney. The beach walking wide shot. We have a wide angle shot of a woman walking away from the camera on a beach. What to watch for? The teeth at distance. AI often makes teeth look like a solid white mouthguard. Let's see. We have four images. Okay, image A. This is not good. Does not look good. The image overall is great. So, we're going to say photo realism in the lens, eight. But the promising and the logic, we'll give it a three. The anatomy, we'll give this a three, two. The overall aesthetic, I'll give this an eight. The skin texture, I'll give this a seven. Image be, ooh, the teeth are not great. Three as well. Maybe actually two. When you zoom in, the resolution is not that great. Skin texture, give this a four. prom scene and the logic. I'll give this a three, too. The overall aesthetic, I'll give this three. Image C. Okay, teeth. This is good. So, we're going to rank the anatomy, the hands, the body, in this case, the teeth, too, I'll give this an eight. Skin texture, I'll give this a three. Photo realism lens, I'll leave it at five. The promising and logic, I'll give this an eight. The overall aesthetic, I'll leave this at five. It's not my cup of tea. this one here. Oh, we don't even see the teeth, but also there. So, we're going to say skin texture. Leave this at five. Bring this to maybe eight. The overall aesthetic kind of like it. I'll give this a seven. Prompt and scene logic. I'll give this a four. Let's reveal the names. Oh, Flux 2. This was the one that did the best when it comes to teeth. We have Flux 2. We have Nano Banana, Mid Journey, Corora Pro. We're missing Cream 4, but I will rank them as following. Flux 2, Corora Pro, Nano Banana, Midjourney. Let's reveal our complete evaluation for our full body test. Flux 2, Corora Pro, Nano Banana, Cream 4, then Midjourney. So, we have the highest rated, which is Flux 2. We have the best texture, Flux 2. We have the best logic, Flux 2 across the board. Bucket number five, text and context test. Okay, so let's see what we got here. The graphic T. Medium shot of a woman wearing a white t-shirt with a text summer vibes printed in bold red letters. What to watch for spelling? Did it write summer vibes? Also check how the text wraps around the folds of the shirt. Let's go. The text is great everywhere. So 10 10 10 and 10. The skin texture, this looks realistic. Give this an eight. This one looks AI. Realism, I'm going to give it a three. Not a three, like a four. Skin texture, I'll give it a seven. And the overall aesthetic, it's cute. I like it. Six. Also, this one here, I'll give this a six, too. Summer vibes, medium shot of a woman. Again, I don't know what's happening here. It's asking for a woman, and it's giving us a man. Well, we're not necessarily watching for that cuz if we did the prompt and scene logic would be zero for all these images. Look at this. This looks very realistic. If I saw this, I would not think it's AI, but I'm going to say the photo realism and the lens. I'll give it an eight. The text and typography, well, here needs to be a 10. Needs to be a 10. In here needs to be a 10, too. A 10. A 10. But the overall aesthetic, it's cute. I'll give this a six. This one here, well, I can tell this is AI. Photo realism, give this a three. Overall aesthetic, I'll give this a four. Summer vibes. Oh, this looks AI, give this a two. Skin texture, I'll give this a four. Overall aesthetic, I'll give this a three. Let's see which one is which. Okay, this is Flux. Didn't do that well in this one. We have Cream 4. We have Nano Banana Pro. We have Kora Pro. We have Midjourney. I'll say Cadream Form. I'm gonna say Kora Pro. Nana Banana Flux. Then Midjourney. Next, the neon sign. Cinematic street photography shot of a rainy window at night. A bright pink neon sign. Inside the glass clearly says nocturnal. Nocturnal. How do you How do you even say this? Reflection on the wet glass. Raindroplets. What to watch for is the glow. Does the light from the letters accurately reflect the wet glass? Check for spelling. Let's see. Knocked to H. And here, image A. The text and typography, I'll give it a three. The promising and logic, I'll give this a seven. Photo realism, I'll give this a four. Overall aesthetic, it's cool. I'll give this a six. This one over here though, it seems like neon sign is coming from inside. I'm not quite sure what the Oh, actually it's outside. Oh, I see. Not quite sure about this one. The realism, bring this to nine. Text and typography. Oh, yeah. This is good. I'll give this a seven. Overall aesthetic, six. Promising and logic, I'll give this a four. Let's see. It's probably Mourney H. Yes. Overall aesthetic, seven. Text and typography, an eight. Photo realism, I'll give this a four. Then we have image D. Okay. H the physics make sense here. So I'm going to say a nine for realism three. It looks like a 3D render to be honest with you. The last one. Okay, this looks good. Photo realism, I'll say a seven. Overall aesthetic, I like it. I'll give it a six. Prompt and scene logic, I'll give this an eight. text and typography. I'll give this an 82. Let's see which one is flux. Okay, I think the flux is going to be image D. Yes, I got it. There we go. Only again the tint. It's a tint. The tint gives it away. So, we have flux 2. We have Cream 4. Look at this. We have Kora Pro. I thought this was mid Journey. We have Nano Banana Pro, which I think could have done a better job. Again, this looks like a reflection to me. Doesn't look like it's standing outside. And this is Midjourney. Let's see which model won this test. Cadream 4. Wow. Best texture is Cream 4. Best logic though, it's Flux 2. Very interesting. Fabric and consistency test. For all my fashion lovers out there, this one is for you. Denim macro shot. A macro close-up still life of a pair of vintage blue jeans. What to watch for the stitching. Does it actually go through the fabric? Let's see. Image A. Okay. The stitching looks nice. I'll give this an eight. Overall aesthetic six. Photo realism 10. I don't think I would be able to tell that this is AI. This one here though, yes, I can tell it's AI, so I'll give this a three. Overall aesthetic, I'll give this a three, too. Prompt and logic, I'll give it a five. Skin and texture, there's nothing here. There's nothing in the anatomy, too. Stitching though looks good. This one, too. Damn. Stitching is great. It does look very realistic. Would not be able to tell this is AI except the fact that it's way too sharp. Maybe that's what gives it away. But I'm going to say that the prompt and the scene logic seven photo realism eight. Overall aesthetic four image D. Okay, I can tell that this is AI. The stitching is okay. I'm going to say photo realism three. Overall aesthetic four, promptency logic six. And image E. Ooh, another good one. Again, might be a bit too sharp. The stitching looks great. Overall aesthetic, I like it. I'll say a seven. Prompt and scene logic, I'll give it a seven. Photo realism seven. And let's see which one is which. So, I liked A, C, and E. Oh, okay. C is Flux 2. Did a very good job. Look how sharp the details are. It's crazy. Then we have Nano Banana Pro. Very sharp, too. Then we have Kora Pro, which in my opinion is the most realistic looking one. Then we have Mjourney and Seamream 4. Next scenario, the slick drape product photography of a piece of emerald green. What to watch for the highlights? Let's do it. Image C. I can tell that this is AI. Image D. I can tell that this is AI. So, I'm just going to rank them to three. Three. Then we have image A, B, and E. Highlights. This is good. This would fool me. I would think this is real. So, I'll give this one a nine. Overall aesthetic is cool. I'll give this a seven. Prompt scene and logic. I'll give this a seven. This one is cool, too. However, the resolution is not there. I'm going to give this one overall aesthetic a six. Promising and logic a six. This one here. Yeah. Now, this is AI for sure. Overall aesthetic, I'll give this a four. Promising and logic, I'll give this a six. This one, image D, looks good. I could tell that this is AI. It's way too polished. Overall aesthetic, I'll give it a six. Prompty and logic, I'll give it a six. Text and typography, there's nothing here. And the last one, oh boy, I would not think that this is AI. However, though, might not be following prompt like all these other images. So, I'm going to say the prompt in scene, I'll leave it at five. The overall aesthetic, eight. Photo realism, I'll give this a nine. Let's reveal which is my favorite one. I think that my favorite one would be either this one. So, E or A. Oh, wow. Flux 2 did it again. It's extremely sharp. Look at the textile. Then we have Kora Pro. Then we have Nano Banana Pro. Oh, that's interesting. This is Nano Banana Pro. Hm. I would not have guessed that. Then Cream 4. Makes sense. Midjourney. Now, let's reveal who won the fabric and consistency test. Kora Pro, the highest rated, the best texture, the best logic. Flux 2. Very, very interesting. Next bucket, we have context and background test. The music festival crowd. Selfie taken by a woman in a music festival. Thousands of people in the background crowd. It says, "Look at the people behind her. Do they have eyes? Do they have noses?" This is what separates the pro models from the toys. Okay, we have four images. My very first impression, everything looks AI. Maybe this one over here might look a bit more realistic. Don't even see the people in the background here. The overall aesthetic, it's fine. Photo realism three. Cena logic four. Skin texture four. This one looks good. I mean, there's instances where you could tell that this is not a real image, but I'm going to say that the prompt and scene logic give this a seven. Photo realism a six. The anatomy that's a seven. Overall aesthetic five, not my cup of tea. Okay, what do you guys think? Well, this definitely looks AI. So, photo realism three. Overall aesthetic four. Prom scene and logic six and image D. Ooh, what's happening here? There's a lot of morphing. So, there's like this weird blur. Look, look at this. She's holding a phone and taking a selfie of her taking a selfie. This is very meta. Realism is a four. Overall aesthetic five. Rempensing logic four. I'll let this at five. The anatomy. Let's reveal the names. This is nano banana. Hey, I don't think it did a great job. This is flux 2. It's very sharp. Another win for flux again. See 4, midjourney. I would rank them as follows. Flux 2, nano banana, seedream, and midjourney. Next scenario before we go into the next bucket. The rush hour subway eye level shot inside a packed Tokyo subway train. We're looking for hands that are real for a body that looks like it's real. Ooh, very first impression. Midjourney. It's cool, but I don't know what's happening over here. Immediately, I'm going to say this is a three. The overall aesthetic, three, promising and logic four. Realism three. Skin texture three. This one here, I love the vibe. Looks very cool. And one, two, three. There's only four fingers, though. No. So, unfortunately, give this a three. Photo realism and the lens, I'll give this an eight. The overall aesthetic, I like it. I'm going to give this a nine. Prompt and scene logic, I'll give this a six. Skin texture, I'll give this a six, too. 1 2 3 4 five. Okay, I'll give this a seven. For hands and body, skin texture, six. Overall aesthetic, I like it a six. Photo realism, six. Image D one. Oh, no. No, no, no, no. This is not this this. No, no, no. This is not good. I mean, it looks very real. If I just look at it for the very first 5 seconds, but then I'm able to kind of see that there's things that are not right. Like, what is this? So, I'm going to say a realism though. Nailed it. Nine. Overall aesthetic, it's cool. Six. The hands and body, sorry, it's going to have to be two. Promising and logic, I'll give it a six. This one. Oh, one two three four. This is Cdream 4. I could tell. I'm going to say skin texture is six. Overall aesthetic is six. Prompt and scene logic a six. Photo realism four. And hands and body is six. Let's reveal the names. Oh, this is Nano Banana Pro. Okay. I did not know that. I was very confident that this was going to be Cream 4. So, we have Nano Banana. We have Corora Pro. We have Cream 4, which I honestly like. We have Flux 2. This is one of my favorite images. I don't know, it just looks very cool. And we have midjourney, I would say. Flux Cream Nano Banana Core Up Pro Midjourney. Let's see the results. Flux 2. We have Flux through across the board for the highest rated, for the best texture, and for the best logic, followed by Corora Pro, Cadream 4, Nano Banana, and Mid Journey. Last three buckets. Fur, feathers, and scales. We're testing animals, not actually testing animals. You know what I mean? The wet fur tiger. National Geographic style portrait of a Siberian tiger shaking water off its fur. What to watch for would definitely be the wet fur. So, let's take a look AT THAT. OH, WOW. All these images look phenomenal. He's not moving. So, just like does not make sense. So, the physics does not make sense, but the overall aesthetic is six. Prompt and scene logic four. Photo realism six. Ooh, this one's great. Um, I like it. Photo realism seven. Overall aesthetic seven. Prompt and scene logic seven. Look at this one. Interesting. Photo realism seven. Six. The overall aesthetic. The prompt and scene logic. I'll give it a six. Wow, look at how sharp this is. Again though, not quite sure what is happening with the water around the tiger because the tiger seems to not be moving. So therefore, I'm going to say prompt and scene logic for overall aesthetic, I like it. I'll give it an eight. Photo realism, I'll give this nine. Image E. Ooh, wow. Gonna say overall aesthetic, I'll give this a seven. Promising and logic, I'll give this a six. photo realism. I'll give this an eight, but honestly, image B is my favorite one. Let's reveal the names. Okay, so this is Kora Pro, but we have Flux 2, extremely sharp, did a great job. We have Nano Banana Pro. Phenomenal job, too. We have MidJourney, and we have Kora Pro. My preference would be Kora Flux, Nano Banana, Cadream 4, and then Midjourney. The next scenario, this is an extreme macrophotography of a green iguana's eye. Highly detailed. What to watch for? The pupil shape. Iguanas have distinct pupils. AI often defaults to round human pupils. Scales should also be distinct. We have four images. Okay, great. Scary. Photo realism nine. Overall aesthetic six, prompt and scene logic seven. Ooh, photo realism 10, prompt and logic seven, overall aesthetic eight, image C. Okay, this does look AI overall aesthetic four, promising and logic six and image D. Okay, not quite sure about this flare here though. Overall aesthetics six, promising and logic four, photo realism eight. Let's see which one is which. Okay, we have Cream 4. We have Flux 2. This is very good, very sharp. The only thing I don't like about it is the blur around the edges. Now, the score. Nano Banana Pro wins for the highest rated, the best texture, and for the best logic, we have Kora Pro. I don't think this is a fair comparison because Kora Pro was not actually in the last scenario, but you can make your decision on your own. Last two buckets and we are done. Organic chaos test. The crashing wave. Sense photography of a massive ocean wave crashing. What to watch for? The top of the wave should be semi-transparent. Okay. Okay. This is cool, but it looks like a painting. Photo realism three. Overall aesthetic four, promptency and logic six. Ooh, nice. I like this. I'm going to say photo realism 7, promptency and logic six. Okay, this is nice, too. Photo realism 7, overall aesthetic 7, prompt and scene logic 7. This looks like an iPhone shot. I'm going to say photo realism 8, overall aesthetic 6, prompt and scene logic 7. Okay, this one is a bit too much. Photo realism four, prompt and scene logic six. Overall aesthetic, I don't like it. Three. Let's reveal the names. Okay, so this is Flux 2. Interesting. The issue with this image is that it's a bit sharper than it should be. Then we have Kora Pro. That's why it looks like an iPhone image. Cream 4, Nano Banana Pro, which I love. Also looks like an iPhone image. And Midjourney. So I would rank them Nano Banana, Kora, Seream Flux, and Midjourney. Next scenario, the storm cloud. Thunderstorm forming over a flat field. What to watch for? Clouds are 3D objects. AI often paints them as 2D flat backdrops. Look for shadows inside the cloud folds. Let's do it. Okay. Interesting. I don't know how I feel about this. Does this look AI? Does this look AI to you? Not sure. So, I'm going to say I will give this a six for photo realism. Overall aesthetic six, prompting and logic six. Oh, I like this one. I'm going to say photo realism eight. Overall aesthetic seven or eight actually. Prom scene and logic eight. This looks like an iPhone image, too. I'm going to say photo realism eight. Prompt scene and logic seven. Overall aesthetic seven. Okay, this is definitely flux 2. So, I'm gonna say photo realism eight, overall aesthetic six, prompting and logic seven. The last one. Okay, this looks AI. So, we're going to go over to photo realism three. Promising logic, I'll leave it at five. Overall aesthetic three. Reveal the names. Flux 2. Yeah, this is phenomenal. Look at all the details. Then we have Cream 4, Nano Banana Pro, Kora Pro, MidJourney. So, here's Nano Banana. Here's Kora. Here's Midjourney. I would rank them as follows. I would say Nano Banana, Flux 2, Corora Pro, Cadream, and Midjourney. Let's see who won this test. Nano Banana Pro, Nano Banana Pro for the highest rated, best texture, best logic, followed by Corora Pro, Cream 4, Flux 2, and Midjourney. Last appetite appeal test. This is food for all my foodies. The sourdough bread close-up macro shot of a sliced loaf of rustic sour bread. What to watch for? The holes. Bread has chaotic air bubbles. AI often makes uniform sponge-like holes. Does the butter look oily or plastic? Let's take a look. Well, the very first thing I can tell you is that image D looks fake. So, photo realism. Three, overall aesthetic. Three, prompt and scene logic. Butter looks oily though. And also the steam here or whatever you call this looks fake. So, we're got to say four. This one just don't see any butter. But the bread, it does look real. I'm going to say eight. Prompt and scene logic. Six. Overall aesthetic six. Okay. So, we have some butter, which is not melted. It does look real. It does look like an iPhone photo. I'm going to say photo realism seven. Overall aesthetic seven, prompt logic six. Okay, this one is a bit better. I can tell that this AI though. Look at this. Looks well melted. I mean, looking at this, if we remove the top part of the image, probably I would not be able to tell. So, I'm going to say photo realism 7, overall aesthetic seven, prompt and scene logic six, and the last one. Okay, I'm going to say overall aesthetic four, photo realism for, prompt and scene logic for, and reveal the names. Okay, this is Flux 2. Interesting. This is Cream 4. This is Nanobanana Pro. Makes sense. This is Kora Pro and this is Midjourney V7. I'd say Nano Banana, Kora Pro, Flux 2, Sea Dream 4, and Midjourney. And the very last scenario we are going to rank today, the salmon sushimi plate of fresh salmon sushimi. What to watch for the marbling fat lines in salmon follow muscle structure. AI draws random squiggles. Texture should look wet, raw, not dry. So, let's see. Oh, okay. These are great. You could fool me. So, I'd say nine for photo realism. Overall aesthetic, I'll give it a seven. Prompt and scene logic, I'll give it a seven. Photo realism, I'll say two. Prompt scene and logic, I'll give it a five. Overall aesthetic, four. Okay, this looks great. Looks like a studio photography, something that would be advertised. So, still I'll say that this looks quite realistic to me. Seven. Overall aesthetic eight. I like it. Prompt in scene logic seven. This is also great. It's sharp. So, definitely realism, I'm going to say a nine. Even a 10. Uh, the overall aesthetic six. Prompt and scene logic seven. Makes sense. And the last one, this is good, too. You can see the texture, the details of a salmon. It's great. So, I'm going to say photo realism 9, overall aesthetic 7, prompt and scene logic 7. Let's reveal the names. Flux 2 did very well with the texture. Then we have Nano Banana Pro. Then we have Kora Pro. Then we have Midjourney and Cadream. I would say uh this is a tough one. Flux Nano Corora Cream Journey. Let's see the results. Nano Banana wins followed by Corora Pro, Flux, Cadream 4, and Mid Journey. So, now for the final verdict. Who wins? Who is the king of the Kings? Let's see it right now. Drum roll, please. The verdict. Before we reveal the data, which model did you feel was superior? I don't know. I don't know. I'd say like Nano Banana Pro, Kora Pro, then Flux, but it really depends. So, I'm going to go with Nano Banana Pro. Oh, it's a Kora Pro. Okay, interesting. For realism, for logic, and for vibe. So core up row at 631, nano banana 619, flux 578, seedream 542, and midjourney 463. For realism, we have Kora Pro 5.9, Logic 6.2, and Vibe 7, Nano Banana 6.1 for realism. For Logic 6.6 and Vibe 6.6, then Flux 2 5.9, 6.6, 5.1, 5.3, 6.2, to 4.1 and 4.5, 5.3 and 4.1. Very interesting. Okay, and we are done. Thank you for spending 1 hour with me. But what is the download? Flux 2 Pro is good. However, I'm a bit disappointed because they did claim that it's one of the best hyperrealistic models and it's very good at hyper realism. While it is for some use cases, definitely it's not my to go image model when it comes to generating real humans. Um, it does very well with textile as we saw with environment, with animals. When it comes to real humans, I think it lacks there. This is my honest opinion. I could use other models such as Seedream or Kora Pro to generate hyperrealistic images of influencers or digital humans. This is what we are testing it for. Mind you, we did not go into the weeds of exploring Flux 2 with graphics, infographics, product shots. Flux 2 can offer way more than what we saw today. I'm impressed by the sharpness of this model, by the details that this model produces. I'm not here to tell you what's best. I'm not here to tell you whether Flux is great or not. I'm just here to tell you my own experience with using the product. If you want to try it for yourself and make your fully informed decision, you can go inside Kora. You can select Nano Banana. You can select Kora Pro. You can select Flux 2 Pro and play with it. Determine if Flux 2 Pro is the model for your use case. But what I'm excited about is that Flux 2 is fully open source. So we can experiment, we can build on top of it. Now, one more time, thank you for being here. And do not forget that the real magic of AI is not what it can do for you, but how it empowers you to create and build what you've always wanted. To start imagining, to start exploring without limits. This is Serio.