# Sayuri Healing Food Ubud

Published: 2025-08-08

It's just how you live. It's we don't it's it's but um how you live by sharing how you live. It's just m has natural multiple effect >> right >> and um we have no idea how much one dish of papaya sal change >> how many people's life in whatever the degree it is. >> Yeah. >> Hi, I'm Patricia Kathleen. I travel the world with a mic in hand and questions to ask. And this is where those conversations live. My guests and I get into everything. Work, identity, creativity, purpose, the big stuff, the messy stuff, and the stuff that actually matters. From alleyway chats to studio sitdowns, I bring you with me as I talk to chefs, scientists, artists, activists, whoever around me has a story worth hearing. Wherever you're listening from, welcome. I'm glad you're here. Now, let's get into it. >> Okay. My name is Sori. >> Kanaka. >> Kanaka. Yeah. H. I'm from Japan and um I am the founder of the Sori Hearing Food Cafe and the S Hearing Food Academy in Bali. [Applause] And my role is is is I am the owner >> but I'm still running around. I don't do the operation. I don't involve in the cafes operation but my role is just to be on top of everything on top of everything that um we have this core team. >> Mhm. >> Um like five or six people so weekly we have a meeting and then mostly I delegate the things. Um but then you're at everything. Like last week when I was here and I was doing some B-roll of the cooking class, they said she sets up like Japanese nights and she does like all these things and they were like, "She comes to everything." They're like, "She's always here and always doing things, but you delegate like some of the admin work." >> I want to delegate as much as possible, but I'm still involving a lot in academy. Um and I teach but not as much as before, >> right? >> Um we run the trainings and then short classes and then I kind of bring my presence. >> Mhm. >> So let's jump into the academy. You started Suri Healing Food the restaurant eight years ago. When did the academy start the cooking classes? academy was earlier I was running uh um I don't remember like 10 10 years or more but I was teaching for the different um um chef training >> before uh but let's say 10 years ago I was uh already started in a in the uh hotel resort hotel I rent it and then I set up the training cooking training at that at that time it was only robot chef training and I was working for the other um training as a teacher or I mean >> so local chefs as opposed to tourists as opposed to students that wanted to come and just take classes you were training local chefs. No. >> No. >> Um, >> who are you? >> Foreigners. Okay. And that was 10 years ago. And what caused you to start the restaurant? >> It's >> Well, I I I was cooking for all my life. >> So, >> take the headless. >> It was a very natural evolution. Um, I was in my 30s. I was uh cooking in the retreat center, yoga retreat center, chefing. In my 20ies, I worked in the um a restaurant in Japan, in Tokyo, also in a vegan restaurant that's evolved into um doing raw food in the yoga retreat center outside of Japan. And then I did in India for three years. And then after that I came to uh Bali and then I worked for the yoga teacher training to prepare for the uh raw raw food and um that's evolved to do the raw food shift training within the the same company and then um I stepped out and then created the diff uh yeah together was that was my partner at that time we created uh the raw food chef training >> in a different name. It was not heating food. So when when we had the when I stepped out from it >> uh it was a very natural process. I just uh start doing the my own chef training and then um I just found this place and then yeah. [Applause] How did you choose the location? Was it just what was available or did you have specific parameters that you wanted? You have multiple levels and different areas people can eat. Was that something you looked for or did that just happen? >> Well, the the the place chose me. Ah, that was super clear when I came in. Okay, I take it. I I didn't have any agenda or plan but I wanted to create something that h people can hang out like my friend can hang out and have good time. That's like the initial intention and the cooking is what I do. So yeah. >> So how much of this was here and how much did you have to build? Did you build any of these structures or was all of this here? So initially it's a it it's completely transformed compared to the beginning and this restaurant space was completely empty but there was a building. So we're still using the same building. It was a jazz cafe. It was a legendary place. People knew this place for jazz cafe and this street was jazz cafe street and that's how people remember. So that's has that um energy you know but it was completely empty. >> There was some small ballet like a little hat uh in the garden >> and then academy was not didn't exist. There was a small toilet here and then the kitchen now is like going all the way up to here but there was small kitchen over there and the the outside area office was there. So we kind of transformed on this kitchen and an office. We took down the ballet and then built this one >> on top of it. The foundation was here. >> Okay. >> We just changed the top and together was a parking lot over there. And then um my friend wanted to teach yoga in my cafe because yoga was a big part of me before >> and I had a lot of connection friends teachers. >> This is sushi by the way. >> Yeah. >> Coming in with the comments. I love that. >> And um so I was >> so she taught yoga here. >> No no I start building the yoga shana for my friend. And then at one point that was at the foundation I I had a little trouble with the the the place where I was running the chef training in the hotel and then I that made me realize oh I have to teach at my place. So then it's just transformed into the academy. >> Yeah. Although we can still we still run yoga sometimes and then so it's a marit functional space uh where you open the closet you will find the um fridge and the sinks and shelves for the cooking course but when we close we have kan and then all the singing activities we also have dance and then yogas and >> back in this room. >> Yeah, that's so cool. And then the front room, you host like a lot of different events at nights and things like that as well, different >> series. I want to talk [Applause] >> I want to talk about your menu because menus because it's your restaurant, you know, are kind of the heartthrob and um I think the impetus like the creative drive for people that start their restaurant. So, did your menu start off very similar to what you have now or has it changed over time and what was the goal for creating it in the beginning? >> Well, I don't have goal in general, but uh it was very small. We opened only maybe we didn't open at night, morning and lunch focused and um we did was at as much as we can. We had only two in the in the kitchen and two in front and so there was only one rotation and it in the beginning raw focused >> because at that time I was cooking raw a lot and that was also a lot of demand. Now I think the world demands is kind of shifting more the cooked plantbased h but so I was doing raw and that was my normality. So I mean the bread was never be my reality to be honest. >> So we were serving like tiny you know uh raw bread that was as as >> fact that that was our bread. Yeah. >> Absolutely. Bread's tricky with the raw. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. And then at one like some people want some bread. I don't know. >> Okay. Um >> maybe gluten-free like it. Yeah. It said it adopted transformed over time. So right now as the menu stands, how does it get curated? Do you create dishes for it that you have seen or heard about or that you like? How do you become inspired to add dishes or take dishes away? >> Um, we our menu is quite established and we don't switch so much but small changes like whenever I notice I do and I also sometimes change the menu. uh I create but I also have uh one of my best friend I consider she's the best Sonia she's like the best chef in the world that I know that we work together for many many many years we went through this you know yoga teaching and then create opening another cafe like we also involved and then she helped uh this cafe to open she was the one who trained our kitchen. Um so when she's away now h she already left the body but then I still depend on her because um it is very important for me to change one menu is a big things >> and I don't do it like like this. It's a it's a I I when when she comes I ask >> um so yeah I have this uh uh amazing woman but I sometimes changes a lot of things u um um yeah >> think that's >> how does like so when I came and ate I've been here several times and one time was specifically for dinner because I wanted to understand it you have days of the week where There's a special item produced and then there's also things that are just on the menu. So the day I came, I wanted to make sure I tried both burgers that were on the menu and then the burger being offered for that day. So there's a day that has a special burger. What is the special day food about? Why do you have like one special offered a day? Is it just to keep a rotation of something new and interesting involved or is there a purpose with the academy? What does that serve? [Music] Okay. >> Well, if we put all that seven items in the menu, >> h the kitchen will be too much. It will be too much for the kitchen. Rotation is important. Mhm. >> There is certain capacity and our menu is like now it's like maximum capacity to you know to be able to uh provide the the breakfast, lunch and dinner. the item blue. Um, >> see, >> so it makes sense to have this one special. Ah, >> I don't know actually. Um, I mean this is also how we started >> and it makes it easier. Um we have some stable item and then just these things we have to prepare for the day. Um >> I can't >> well um I don't know how I can reply but uh it's a >> no it makes sense just to have a rotating especially with the freshness of the kitchen and be able to focus on it. >> Um how do you what's your favorite thing on the menu? Does it change from time to time? Do you have like a solid favorite thing that you love to eat for breakfast or lunch or dinner? >> Well, I don't eat three meals a day here, but uh yeah, it's there's a phase. Um I I like this vegan omelette. I had the phase that I loved it. That is breakfast and um but I would eat for lunch. Yeah. Um, I like u galactic ball which is a raw bowl. >> Okay. >> And um I like Korean burger which you tried it I guess. >> Um >> the Galactic Bull is really colorful. I love how many colors it is on it. [Applause] Tell me something if you have done cooking in Japan, India and here. What is the different vibe that um Ubud and Bali and particularly like siri healing food has as compared to the vibe in India when you were there you know cooking or in Japan. by as a the >> customers the whole scene like the attitude towards the food, the customers. I want to get into your specific customers in a second because the your restaurant has kind of a reputation in Ubud about you know the the very it has a cult following. It's very famous. But for you personally, is it a similar scene, the vegan eating scene, the vegan cooking scene here as it is in India and Japan, or is it very different? >> It's very different. Very, very different. Um, >> is it the customers that make it different or is it something else? Is it the attitude about the food? I mean [Music] everything is different in Japan for uh but I worked like >> and there so it's been 20 almost 20 years I I since I left Japan >> so at that time there is hardly any vegan places so um >> but there is a microbiotic >> Mhm. food, right? And I was also into it. Um if you call that vegan um >> it's just approach for the um microbiotic is in a is in a way it's a philosophy >> of balancing yan and then eating the local and then eating seasonal and eating predominantly brown rice no to fruits Um, so the focus in Japan when it hit the intersection between vegan and macrobiotic was really where it was at when you left. >> That is kind of the focus of what you were doing there. [Music] >> What I was doing, I studied macrobiotic and then I worked in the vegan restaurant. It's a very it was a very different approach in cooking. >> Yeah. >> And that's how I learned the vegan way of cooking from the restaurant. >> I see. Um well anyway coming back to your question it's very minority still a minority and um I think um and then in India I worked in the yoga retreat center um like >> it's all yogis and >> what you >> I guess they are more like health conscious Um >> orange juice cuz embodied >> people it's here is more like >> spiritual >> um >> they call it like >> festival yeah >> everyday spiritual festival right would you call would you say that the majority of your clientele your patrons are that same kind of spiritual festival going person. >> I I I think so. Yeah. I mean, not necessarily. I think there's a lot of tourists, too. >> Mhm. >> Uh but um I mean, Ubud is that place. So, >> yes. >> Yeah, >> absolutely it is. The whole town is and it's it's it's known for it, you It's for a long time it's been a mecca >> for people looking to >> um explore alternative or mainstream paths of spirituality and health and yoga and you know the non-western way of thinking right >> so um even though the island is predominantly Hindu I think there's a lot of other things explored outside of that in >> uh >> um >> when you look at your menu do you think about um do you look at the figures like what sells, what what's selling the most and go from there. I always talk to people all my vegan interviews about like I call it the avocado toast um revolution that happened, you know, like 15 years ago was like K-pop when it hit. It hit fast and it didn't go anywhere. And every single restaurant that didn't have avocado toast immediately was like, "We got to get avocado toast on the menu." And it started, the birthplace was California, where I'm from. And so I saw it take over immediately. >> And so I'm wondering if there are other things in Ubud, like trends, food trends that come or go in the vegan food scene >> that you've seen and if you incorporate those in your menu or if you just kind of keep it what what you like to do like do you look at food trends like the avocado toast trend or is it >> Yeah, I do. I do. I mean I I so for me when we started the the uh banana flour fish taco. >> Yeah, >> that was trend. It we started a year ago and now everybody does. And papaya salmon is a trend. Yeah, >> vegan salmon is a trend. We started I don't know like long time ago. >> That was super new. I guess no one was doing it in the in our area. Everybody knows now. >> So yeah, we follow also the trend. Yeah. >> Interesting. So with your cooking classes, I'm interested in the Suri Academy cooking classes, how you design them, how long they are, >> and who is the most common person to take them. Are they other chefs? Are they just tourists looking to make learn how to make good food? >> It's both. >> During >> we we also had like 30 years experienced chef. >> Mhm. >> Took the raw food chef and then he like they like two of them actually both three years 30 years and they just absolutely loved it. >> Yeah. >> And inspired. It's fine >> at the same time. Uh yeah, a lot of people just take it as a curiosity. >> Mhm. Just because they like food or simply just they want to add some healthy food in their diet. >> Um how long are each of the classes? >> The main training which is raw food chef training level one and vegan chef training level one. uh 13 days. >> It's a good good amount of time. >> Yeah. >> For people who are sometimes blazing through. How do you find your um like junior instructors? You teach some classes, but how do you find the ones that teach the other classes? >> Um I we have similar teachers that I can rely on. >> Good. And they uh all took our course. >> Okay. So, >> did you meet them as they took your course? >> After they took the course, they uh sorry, what do you mean? >> So, how did you come to did they come to apply to work for you after they took your course or did they take your course in order to work for you? >> Did they take your course and say, "Listen, I want to be I want to work for you." >> Oh, like that. >> Huh? >> That's wonderful. It means the course goes over well with people. It's received very well if people want to work for you after that. >> Um, how are they filled? Are the How many times a year do you offer the 13-day course? >> We have course like chef training pretty much every month because it's not only those two. We have ro chef training level two and um dessert raw dessert chef's training level one fermentation training level one. Um so vegan chef training is quite new. We started maybe one year ago. So now we are kind of running it every two months >> and we Yeah. So we rotate things. >> Okay. Is it based is the curriculum the coursework based around um end results like a a planned meal or is it based around educating about the premise and the platform of vegan? >> Um no based on the dishes. >> The dishes. >> Yeah. >> So the education about like chia seeds absorbing water and becoming kind of gelatinous that happens as you're incorporating the chia seed into the dish. >> Like do you educate them as to different That for sure. >> That's interesting. >> We educate that. But uh um we teaches a lot of lot of recipes. >> Mhm. And uh it's also a lot of the the the dishes that you can eat at the cafe you can learn. It's incorporated in the garden. >> Have do you have a cookbook that you sell? I have four cookbook. >> Four cookbooks. Okay. And they are they based on the dishes that you sell in the cafe or do they vary away from that? >> There's many in the Yeah, because my book was the foundation for the menu. I did this book before I open. So >> Okay. A lot of people do that in reverse. They write the book after the menu, >> but you made the menu off of the book. Yeah, because I I was cooking for for all my life and um I was already established with Yeah. with with the the >> signature dishes that I create, I guess. Mhm. >> So by putting it the things on the book that helped me for like to train people >> because it's written and then if you follow it it's you can make this one. It helped to me so much. >> What's your favorite thing to cook from the menu or from the book? >> I don't know. I like baking. >> Baking now. Now I like B. >> Is that headed towards desserts or you like even savory like lasagna? Okay. Desserts. >> Yeah. >> So when you go to dinner parties, do people say, "Bring some food, Sori. Bring us your your baked goods." Do they expect that from you? >> No, they don't ask. But uh when I have a party at home, >> yeah, hardly no one bring any no potlucks on your dime. They're like, "She'll have it. She'll make it. That's funny. Do you still love to cook in your spare time? Do you cook for yourself? Like, do you still cook? >> I do, but I don't do so much of a love related cooking. >> Um, yeah, simple things I I always prepare >> and sometimes I get into um experiment. Yeah, >> for the cafe and then for academy and then I started doing like complicated things but otherwise I do very simple things. [Applause] >> How often your um counterpart who your advisor who you take really seriously before you change the menu how often does she come to town? >> Not so much. She's not that available. So like one menu in a year >> some that kind of >> I see. >> What's the biggest challenge out of um for running a restaurant, a vegan restaurant in Ubud, would you say? >> Is it like delivery times? Is there ever a shortage of tempeh? You know, like what is there something that's kind of always a little bit of a challenge? >> Uh that's hard to uh reply. It's uh there's a constant challenge >> everything this always changing. >> What makes the constant challenge? >> I mean there is a yeah all the things that you said for sure we have we have 80 people it's it's it's it's like the whole school. Uh it's beyond that running out of tempe. It's be it's a lot of human to human like human relationship. Yeah. >> Um problem arise all the time in a way. Uh I I mean whether I take it like in the beginning there was no challenge and after corona I feel a little bit of challenging for the academy that's it's just the game changed like getting people for the academy had no no trouble before. >> Mhm. We never um promote anything. >> It was word of mouth. >> Word of mouth. >> Now it's not it's not that easy. So that's the biggest challenge. I would say economy is the biggest challenge. Cafe is well run smooth but >> the the capacity of that we are running is really big. >> You have 80 employees 80. >> Mhm. Wow. >> Is that because you're open so many hours? >> Maybe. But also like the big restaurant. >> Yeah. >> Like that actually in in B. It's a bit different from Western world. >> Mhm. >> Yeah. Right. Of course. [Applause] Um, would you ever open another one or is it because this one is such a massive endeavor it's like no. >> Have you ever thought about like cuz Changu there's so many people that open up you know a sister >> a sister one in Uatu or Changu or Seamyak or >> I don't want to work >> more than I have. >> Yes. I want to be playing music >> and I want to fulfill my personal life. So um I don't think of that. I don't think of the second place but if anyone wants to open say you're hearing for the um outside of party. >> Yes ma'am. H I am open. >> I mean if this person aligned with you know what we do and if the if this person wants to >> I work >> be running this whole show you know like not just because oh this place is doing well and that we want to open the franchise. Not not like that. If this somebody has that passion and understanding and same ethi ethic um I am up for like outside of body I guess that's maybe serves the purpose. >> Mhm. >> You know more than opening in channel >> because it's a philosophy right sori healing food isn't just about the menu. you have this academy, but you have this notion about food that you the past 20 years of cooking and and being with your your life in >> vegan food has brought to it. Um what is your relationship your personal relationship with vegan food? Do you say >> does it service a purpose um that's just one or multiple? Does it service health, spirituality? Like what is your personal relationship with it? >> Yes. Well, it was very natural things and I don't have a strong um >> how other people eat >> my relationship to vegan veganism or vegan food is that >> I want to is not only about the food But >> um I want to be welcoming people >> whoever it is >> um so meets welcome to and they don't have to you know they can enjoy this food. >> Mhm. And uh maybe that's going to inspire them when they go back home and maybe just gonna be curious about what's the um vegan food and that's lead this person to be curious about how can be healthier. Yeah. >> Um >> yeah. Um so it's a inclusivity. >> Yeah. And um yeah, of course, like you know, we can minimize the uh footprint and um save the animals life. Um >> that was >> better for the climate. >> But uh it's probably >> Yeah. But it's just that part of the lifestyle. It's um this is just how you live. It's we don't it's it's >> that's what I >> but um how you live by sharing how you live it's just has natural multiple effect >> right >> and um we have no idea how much one dish of papaya salmon change >> how many people's life in whatever the degree it is. Yeah. And yeah, so I see it more like uh just the way of living, natural way of living and um what I I trust this has a lot of impact to the world. >> Mhm. Absolutely. Speaking of I mean the papaya salmon. So I had that in Sweden um 10 years ago at a vegan restaurant. They used carrot >> instead of papaya and they smoked it to do that kind of salmon because they do a lot of locks up in that area and um it blew me away >> and so and coming here and seeing the papaya I'm like yeah I love it. It's a beautiful dish. What is your current best seller on your menu right now? Do you know like the top dishes? >> Keri and the gloss. >> Okay. >> Yes. >> And have they been the pop sellers top sellers for a long time? >> All the time. Yeah. >> Excellent. And you make all of So a lot of vegan restaurants don't do their own desserts and this is something that you're passionate about >> and so you've always made your own vegan desserts, right? >> That's interesting. Um because that is a whole another the reason why people tend to outsource desserts is because it's a whole another layer of difficulty. >> You're open breakfast, lunch, and dinner and then you're also making your own desserts. Do you have different chefs that do different aspects or do you have one chef that does it all? >> No, we have a different department. >> Mhm. >> Um, what's the most difficult chef to find and train? Desserts, >> mains. We >> Oh, it's not how it works in you have to train them. >> Mhm. >> Yeah, that's how it works here, >> right? But we have um dessert chef >> and then kitchen head chef. They do operation in the kitchen. And then we have production. Production does fermentation, dehydration, um preparation in general. Yeah. And we have B separately. When you went from having two people up front and two people in the back in the very beginning and then you expanded, was the expansion fast or slow? >> I think fast. >> Fast. >> Yeah. Okay. Interesting. And do you with that expansion is staff retention hard or is it easy in Bali? Do people tend to stay working here for years or is the turnover? >> It was easy. >> Okay. So people stay >> stay. There's a lot of people still here since the beginning. >> The beginning. That's like family. >> Yeah. That's wonderful. So, a little bit about like the decor and all of that because you said, you know, the place chose you >> and then you came in and shifted some things around. Did you have an idea before it found you of how you wanted to decorate and do things or did that change after you and the place found each other? Um, not too much about decor. >> Uh, so you always knew you wanted tables on the floor and things of this nature. >> What's your >> uh I guess it's more that table on the floor is natural thought for me cuz I'm Japanese, >> right? >> Yeah. Yeah. >> You have a different I mean you have upright tables here. You have all over, you know, you have a choice. But this tatami space in the in the bay that that platform was there before. Okay. >> Great. >> So it was just natural that Yeah. Yeah. I didn't change that part. >> Turned >> all of the herbs and everything against the wall. Um doing all of the glass for the Suri Academy. Was that suggested by the architect or was that your choice to get the natural light? I think one >> all of the glass windows >> that was active architect. >> Yeah, >> good call. It's a good call to have a lot of natural light in a cooking school, right? >> So that because food wants to be seen naturally, especially vegan food. You're dealing with color, >> you know. So, um >> that's cool. I love all of the different spaces, the loft. You can see it. How many can you seat? Do you know how many people you can seat in the entire restaurant? I got it all. >> Yeah, a lot. Just leave it at that. But however many can squeeze in. That's wonderful. So, is there anything that you thought I was going to ask you for this interview that I never asked you >> when you were thinking about it? Is there anything you should tell me that I haven't asked? I have to second all the way that she >> uh well for me academy is important to be included in the interview so that hopefully somebody can will be interested in and it was spoken. So I think that's it. >> It's major. I've talked to a lot of vegan chefs that talk about wanting to do you know a bunch of the trainings here. It's why people are getting the visas for the amount of time they're getting the travel tourist visas is to specifically do this. And I think it incorporates really beautifully, right, with the Ubud experience. You can come, you can do your training and spend another couple of weeks eating your way through Ubud if you're me. But um you know, things like that. Can I hold if I hold sushi, do you think she'll fall asleep like that in my arms? I'm dying. I need her to do this. Like I have four children. This is everything. Come on now. You can do it. Yes. Oh, she's falling asleep. This is heaven, >> right? >> Is it a girl or a boy? Does it Doesn't matter. >> Uhhuh. >> Hello. Oh, I just I can't Did you Did you train her to do this? >> No. >> She's done it since she was a baby. Do you carry her a lot? >> I do carry her a lot, but it's more recent. For the last 6 months, she starts sleeping daytime more. She's a napper. >> Mhm. >> Do you take naps? Did she learn this from you? >> No, I don't. >> No, I don't either. But I would kill to have a dog like this. This is everything. You get so used to carrying a child around and you just miss it. I could just Sushi and I could just hang out. This is so awesome. And the face, I mean, I can't. >> Doesn't it bring you joy? The pug face is just like, oh, I love it. >> It's so great. The academy is cool. Um because it I like the way that when my problem with traditional culinary schools in the west all right that's all I know of like the you know culinary institute of America let's say >> the structure from when I last looked at the outline of how they are introduced and they cook it just was it it felt more academic than based on food you know and I understand there's techniques there's knife work there's this there's that but you're dealing with something that people encounter visually, they taste. It just feels like the method of learning is too old school, you know, and it should be introduced around a dish and what speaks and what notes you're hitting and things of that nature. And when I um when I got the B-roll of your cooking academy, you know, and saw that you were just coming up with like that one dish for the moment and explaining things as you went along through that. Like you explained that soy milk had the binding agent in it. I can't remember what it's called. >> Yes. And you said that's why we tend to use soy milk. You can use others, but this helps it more. >> Learning that while you're learning the dish helps it cement. I retained that information because I was watching you >> build something as you gave it to me, you know, and so I just think it's more inclusive. It seems like a more >> um current day way of learning to cook. And so I really liked it. >> It was beautiful. Yeah, it was very cool. How did the students um cakes turn out that day? >> Ah, that day. That day. >> I think she loves me. I think it's mutual. >> Adopt. >> I'm so in love. >> Um that day. Was everyone happy with the way they turned out? >> Yeah. >> What did the design did they do with the um the frosting blew him away? So we've been cooking vegan desserts. I um I cook mo and he bakes. >> So the sweet stuff is for him. >> And um we've struggled with vegan frosting for years because um a lot of recipes in the west still want you to use like horrific like vegan margarine >> or vegan things like and it tastes awful. It doesn't taste good. And yours was so amazing. Did you come up with the puffed uh puffed grain as a picnic or >> uh it's common in Japan actually? >> Okay. >> Yeah. It's a macrobiotic uh way of making uh thick cream. >> Okay. >> So, I took it from it. It's brilliant. >> Never heard of that before. >> No. And it's it needs to be like known because vegan icing is so not good in the west. I think that a lot of people are getting beautiful with vegan desserts, but it's still one area that I think needs um yours was the best. >> The more and more non like new vegan products are coming out, right? >> Yeah. >> That we never ever thought about it before. So imagine how it's going to evolve. >> Yes. >> We've gone back to basics, whole foods, you know, just like um I don't think there's anything better tasting. I'm the obnoxious vegan. So when people say, "What's your favorite vegan food?" I try to make something up and lie because my favorite food is a fresh chopped salad with a million vegetables and a little bit of olive oil and sea salt and spice. That's like my favorite thing because I can taste it, you know, and all of that. But, um, no one wants to hear that. Everyone's like, but I'm like, it took me, you know, we've been vegan for 17 years and it took me a minute to get to a place where I loved everything. [Applause] Hello. Oh my word. Does she go everywhere with you? Can she ride on the scooter? Yeah, but there is not many places allowed to talk. >> Oh. >> Uh if it's outside, it's okay. But if it's inside, no. So, but whenever I come here, I I take advantage of bringing her. >> And then if I go to some class, meet friends, it maybe it's too much. So, I don't take >> Does she get along with Bali dogs? >> No. >> No. I I thought that I have a dog at home and I was like, I don't think she'd get along with Bali dogs. By dogs are cute, but they are like street kids, you know? They have They're like a gang. They have their own They have their own stuff. >> Oh, she's so perfect. >> Yeah. She wants to be friends with everyone, but then Oh, the dog gets annoyed with her sometimes. >> Oh, cuz she's so pretty. [Music] She's so perfect. So, is Bali it for you? Do you think you'll be here forever? >> Is this the place? >> Forever, but >> Well, that's I'm happy. Happy here. >> Well, >> and you've lived here for 10 years. >> I lived here for 15 years. 15. >> You have a test community here. >> Yeah. So, sometimes I mean a lot of people once feels like, oh, I can't do this anymore. >> You know, there is a phase. Yeah, for sure. because it's super intense and then it's just constant changing energy. >> It's so tiring. The more you get older, I think that like it gets tiring. That's why this place would attract a lot of young generations where people want to meet people and do something looking for the transformation constantly. Yeah. Yeah, this this constant energy is >> by >> too much. >> Mhm. >> But uh I just don't found other place that I would like to be. >> Yeah, it's so so comfortable to live here. >> Yeah, it's easy. >> It is easy. I mean, I think if you can handle like you said the constant change >> and find your own consistency, you know, your own community. Yeah, >> I can see that life for me. Um, you know, I only live in Bali like two months out of the year and it's >> I forget how easy it is to live here as compared to every other place in the world. I live throughout the year. >> Every place has its own benefits. I love Saigon, you know. I um I stay there a lot, but it's a it's a lot of energy. It's a city. It's D, you know. So, um, but this place is >> I just need to get her water. >> Too thirsty. He's Yeah, cuz it's pug. >> Yeah. >> Are you thirsty? >> Yeah. She's worried about you. >> Say, I am. I am thirsty. >> I need some camera. >> Are you going to go get some? I know. So, I'll be interviewing Sushi today. >> Mhm. How do you feel about me and vegan food? Okay. I love it, too. >> Seaweed on the outside. [Music] >> This is a very, very spoiled dog. It's very privileged. You're like feeding her out of your hand. She will never love anyone like she loves you ever. >> You're rescuing your kids for dogs. >> Yeah. That's so funny. [Music] >> All right. I'm coming back as sushi in my next life. I just want everyone to know and I really hope my my person is someone like Suri, right? [Music] >> Thank you so much for talking with me. >> I appreciate it. Absolutely. And I appreciate you. Sushi. Oh my god. No, she was extra. This was a gift. >> Yes. >> Thanks for listening to Borderless. I hope you enjoyed this conversation. If you like this episode, please subscribe so that you can continue to hear fascinating conversations as I continue to wander the globe. You can follow us on Instagram at borderless-podcast or head over to our website borderless-podcast.com for more info and updates. This episode was produced by Patricia Kathleen Productions. And a special thank you to the team that makes it all happen. Charie Ternate, Emma Baker, and Finn Wild. Wherever you are in the world, I hope our conversation made you feel a little more seen and connected. Until next time, take good care.