# CANES Bangkok Thailand

Published: 2025-09-09

Yes. You know that is amazing. How long did it take you to design? >> It's depends. Honestly, it depend how hard you drink at the night. Sometimes >> you get more creations. >> If you have more drinking, you get more creations. You will let your minds open. >> How long have you been cooking? >> Uh since I can remember, I think. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. My grandma forced me to put the kitchen because I always walk and run around in the house and break new things. >> You're going to start cooking. >> Yeah. Next week we're going to change our meals again. That's That's the point. That's the point. >> And I mean whole menu and whole drinks again. >> I would come every week if I cuz you're changing it. I would. Hi, I'm Patricia Kathleen. I travel the world with a mic in hand and questions to ask. And this is where those conversations live. My guests and I get into everything. Work, identity, creativity, purpose, the big stuff, the messy stuff, and the stuff that actually matters. From alleyway chats to studio sitdowns, I bring you with me as I talk to chefs, scientists, artists, activists, whoever around me has a story worth hearing. Wherever you're listening from, welcome. I'm glad you're here. Now, let's get into it. >> What is the orange? >> The orange one is a calamy juice, which is one kind of tight between orangey citrusy things that rarely find in Bangkok with some good quality. So we have uh the calami from the Jaburi orange of Thailand, the organic one, the fresh one, the balance flavor. >> It tastes a little bit like a mandarin, you know. >> Kind of blend with some tandarine, some kind tangerine, some water. >> It tastes like it looks It is so beautiful. I love that, you know. It's amazing. Okay. So, what are we looking at here? >> So, we have uh one of the previous tasting menu dish, which is uh uh koi. As you know, it's kind of northern style of Thai cuisine that they put some uh northern style curry paste with some of huge amount of coconut cream just like into the curry. They basically serve with some egg noodles, but we put something more fun. So, we decide to slice down some of the tofu skin into kind of noodles form. And we just lightly top with some grilled and marinated king mushroom. >> We have some le over here. And we have some aliens over here. Say, which is the scobby. We process them with some of the I would say scientist thing got because we are Latin tables. >> Yes. >> Basically we put some uh sail base to make it edible to make it less sour to make it tender. Me personally it's texture texture itself almost like a spritz. >> Mhm. And we have the products of a lab which is vegan abico which is uh some some trim roll but vegan. >> So we have kind of form that we put into the side of this thing again and we have signature sauce to put into side of the the flavor of the the egg. This one >> and this is is that a mushroom? It's a scobby symbiotic culture of bacteria and yeast. >> Okay. From kombucha fermentation. >> So it's a kind of mother of the bacteria and yeast. >> What is floating in it? >> It's floating. It's alive. >> It's a mushroom. >> It's kind of it's a no it's it's kind of cellulose that forms up after uh some process of the you have kind of good amount of bacteria and yeast. They formed it up to kind of kind of make more bacteria they thrive. The good bacteria they >> Yeah. >> put into your guts >> like a kombucha. Yeah. That's amazing. It's very cool. Very alien. Like I love that. >> All the customers say it's alien. Yeah. That's that's why we call it aliens. >> Perfect. Yes. >> So we have a dry and we also have some kind of paper towel. You can also put some uh white into the water. It's a kind of kind of ethanol and water that we have extraction of mint flavor. You can kind of wash your hands. >> This is amazing. Did you develop this as well? >> Yeah. >> Oh, I love that. That's very fun. This must be a a a crowdleaser. Do all of your customers love this? Yes, this >> because we change every time because uh after the times and times we produce all the food. >> Yes. >> We got some waste on that. So we kind of generate them >> into kind of this specific one one to one and we kind of put into the I I don't know what the the food side say but they put into the machine that can evaporate all everything but keep it just the flavor. >> Yes. >> Have an extraction. Yeah. >> And we blend it up with some ethanol, some water into just kind of very good solution to kind of wash your hand. >> It smells fantastic. You've taken the lab into everything. This is amazing. Can you tell me what's about this? >> It's the drinks that we always serve at. So we welcome drink >> for for the first time that we open our restaurant from now until until now which is the calamity juice with some uh some sodas that we got some butterfly peas some rose >> and some ice made out of bell fruit and some >> and the ice is the fruit that's floating in there >> and every time you slow the glass or every time after the ice is melted The taste reshapes every time we have a sip. >> It has like a sunset of colors, you know, all of the violets, purples, or orange. So, every time you sip, it changes taste. >> Every time because of the ice. Yeah. >> I love it. Do you drink this a lot? >> A lot. Every time. It's kind of because we are in Bangkok. It's 40°. >> Yeah. >> So, it's kind of refreshing one to kind of welcoming all the customers. >> Will you sit with me? Can we can we start? >> Can we We have We have our my one of my s chef. >> Yes. >> To have a seat and we can talk a lot. >> Absolutely. Have a seat. Let's do this. Someone. Here we go. I'm going to try this. Cheers. >> Okay. >> Oh, that's amazing. I want to >> Can I Can you jump in? How do I go at it? Is there a preferred way? Uh you you can play around with it. We have some scobbyies. You can just use your spoon to cut it down. >> We have some uh tofu skin underneath. >> So this on top that looks like is this >> mushroom? >> Mushroom. >> It's marinet. Grilled king oyster mushroom. >> What kind of mushroom? >> It's king o. >> Yeah. They call orangey. >> Yeah. >> It's very kind of mushy, very meaty flavor on that. And we have some scobby on the side that top with some uh fermented cabbage. That one is a little show. >> It's kind of see nose. You got kind of see nose on that one. >> Yeah. And it's like a >> like texture with the light. >> So do you did you develop all of these in your lab? >> Yeah. We since we are lab to table so we work uh our work is lab with chef. Mhm. >> So, uh you know that first time this they don't cook if if even they can cook but it's not that good. >> Mhm. >> To produce something new something kind of you know very if they you need to get some guy to know how to cook something >> taste good texture everything that's everything. So that's why we we are a lab to table because we work we are we are we are the restaurant that have some food scientist where I can cook >> chef >> we know how to fermenting things how to calculate thing how to invent it something >> creating something to substitute for something else like these noodles >> yes like noodles >> where is that where am I getting the heat what is that >> the heat is is from the curry paste it's northern style of the curry paste Mhm. >> So we have a lot of aromatic herbs and spice that really to use. You use some curry powder, some of the long pepper that kind of texture that taste changes everything. >> This is dynamite. Those noodles are everything. They're so much better than the regular noodles. Normally we use like a egg noodles. >> But this one we use the tofu skin make like a noodle to sub it. >> Normally when I hear tofu skin I think of tough >> you know something tough but these are tender. >> How are you doing that? >> We kind of use the very fresh one. >> Uh the tender one is the we got from the fresh quality of the tofu which is tofu skin which is made from the soy milk. So on top of that, we just skim that off. >> Okay. >> Uh hanging dry a little bit >> and that's where it's getting tender. >> Yeah. And just slice it down. It's hay made out of leak. White part of the leak. >> So brilliant. I love that. >> Still got some flavor that onions. >> So is this coming out of the imagination of someone? Where are you learning how to make hay out of the wheat? >> How? Oh, wow. It's it's hard to to to it's one of my experience >> first of all >> because uh we fry things a lot you know that uh the white color that changes which is the caramelization but the structure of uh the leak >> after you kind of thinly slice them just like shredden them >> you deep fry them they can form up in dehydrate just like any form that you like >> so leaks behave differently than other kinds of onions in that sense. Can you do that to all onions? Can you make them this the hay? >> Uh first of all, in Thailand, we have some fried shallots. >> So fried shallot is kind of everything in in in Thai food just like southern style fried chicken. >> Yes. >> They base dessert together with some fried shallots. >> So they crispy, they from form it up, we shape it up. That's why we we think about what we what we can do with other kind alims >> als things just like onions onions doesn't work because they got a lot of the um water content >> inside of the of the onion but without the leak with the leak they kind of just like trip it up form it up fried it up and hold it just like shape whatever you want after we dry Yeah. >> So we think about a lot. We talk a lot that we want to put it on just on the menu or kind of signature of the dish. So >> tell me about the spices because right Thai and spices are one. Yeah. >> And um do you >> do you source your spices? Do you grow them? How are you getting the spices for your curve? >> Wow. That's that's that's a funny thing because in northern cuisine they don't serve that much spicy as you have right now. >> Okay. >> But I'm the guy from the south of Thailand. >> Uhhuh. >> So um we have a lot of spicy things >> in the south. >> Yeah. >> But I do love northern style cuisine. >> Mhm. So it's like a big culture from the chef and the traditional one traditional dish and put this together with his knowledge and from completed like to be a dish based on his knowledge and his uh hometown. >> Yeah. Like a fusion. >> Yeah. fusion >> like north to south flavor because back then when I was young my mom used to cook uh one of the northern style dip which is nik it's tomatoes and beef and pork >> or chicken >> together >> but it's very spicy >> even though northern cuisine they don't put that much >> chili on that but my mom loves to cook something very spicy so they put a lot a lot just like it's nothing but south cuisine. >> Mhm. >> That's why that's why uh I create things together. >> I love the spice. >> Yeah. And this one in particular, it's very flavorful. I love all spice. I love really spicy things. Thai spice, Thai food, Indian spice is different. But um I love this. The complimentary like the textures unbelievable. the noodle and the the mushroom on top. Like you do feel like you've had three separate, you know, um elements. Even the the onion on top, like it really does play. I've had a lot of things that have a lot of different components and I'm like I tasted one or two that was all there, including the um >> scobby or >> Yeah, it's um it's just right there. And the flavors are so strong. So this is you called it a welcome dish. What is this like normally in your restaurant? Did you start with this dish? >> No, this one is one of our main course. >> Amazing. It's Does everybody love it? >> Everybody even even Thai people that come from north where they originally have this for >> since where they since they born. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> They say it's different, but it's good. It's different from from what they have a long time ago. >> Yeah. >> Because it's very spicy, but sometimes changing things might be very from the last. >> Yeah. It's present, too. And it causes one to question. I think, you know, questioning and understanding what was in it. the dynamicism of understanding the the object that you took and making the tender versus, you know, um more firm on top that would represent more of like a fish or something traditionally. All of that with the spice bringing everything out, it's it does make me kind of bend even as a vegan. I've been vegan for, you know, 15 years and this is like I I need to reuse my vegetables differently. It's amazing. There's no way that anyone wouldn't like this. This is one of those things where I'm like, you should get yourself checked out if there's something wrong with this. You know, that is amazing. How long did it take you to design? >> It's depends. Honestly, it depend on how hard you drink at the night. Sometimes >> you get more creations. >> If you have more drink, you get more creations. We will let your minds open sometime. So you just sit around sometimes like >> what can we how can we come up with a noodle base out of something else. It's kind of pop up on the mind >> back at the time because uh we change menu a lot of the time because it's depend it's not about the seasoning in Thailand some some uh rainy season also very hot right >> you cannot get any kind of fresh vegetables just even uh green leaf which is kind of kind of very kit >> on Thailand just like holy basil uh >> even even raining season that Then you you should find it a lot, but sometimes you don't have any. >> So you're constantly evolving your menu based on the season and what that season's providing because not all seasons are the same. 2023 was really hot season and also based on the other of the book that day. >> Sometime we have to share the menu >> every week. >> Every week. >> Sometime we have uh branch uh lunch menu this one. But in this menu, we got to change it because the quality of the vegetables. >> Wow. Always on your toes. >> Yes. >> When did you open originally? >> Uh we started at uh Christmas. Yeah. COVID 19. >> So after one week >> when the COVID pandemic is >> Yes. >> And just closed. >> Yes. first Christmas and then next week after that close very soon >> even though we have kind of three months restoration for customer we have to close it down >> government something like that >> so when you when co um allowed for you to reopen how did that go was it slower than you originally planned because everything the whole world had changed or how did it look >> I think the the customer behavior may change a lot after co >> so we have to adapt what what we look for what we what they look for us or we look for for them. >> Yeah. And we adapt a lot a lot a lot of thing because we used to serve just French menu >> European cuisine but this time as you can see it's Thai cuisine because of uh back then Tai people kind of nervous to get out of their place get some food they cook theirself themsel but European people or the foreigners they still come to back up to have something So that's why we think about that they they are from European they came to Bangkok not for European cuisine >> right >> so that's why we we adapt we change to Thai menu and the feedback of that is very good very very big change our restaurant forever >> massive flexibility to start off thinking you're going to do French cuisine and then immediately pivot to Thai because your audience or your future clientele went from Thai who's looking for European to Europeans who are looking for Thai that that reconfiguration. How long did that take you to cultivate a new menu like that? Did you immediately know what you wanted to start serving with the Thai or did it take a minute when you looked at serving Thai food? >> Took me a while >> because uh basically I I love to cook Thai food. Even though I learned what we learn, I start to cook is French cuisine, Italy, some of the European cuisine. Even though my deep roots of the family cuisine, it's Thai cuisine. So if we have to do some vegan Thai cuisine, we have to do a lot of things. We have to fermenting something that just like fish sauce. So we have fermented mushroom sauce. We have to create something that imitation of the oyster mushroom. Oyster sauce. So we have some oyster mushroom sauce. Just like that. >> Yeah, >> that's a lot of thing. But sometimes you just have some salt and pepper or that European cuisine. We have a lot of butter, vegan butter sales on the market. >> So we just do the our own vegan butter >> and that's it. >> But in Thai you see a lot of thing. You have shrimp paste that you have use something elsees >> to do. >> That's >> Did you just have a laundry list of things that you had to substitute? Fish paste, oyster sauce, like all of these things. >> So if we do if we going to do some Thai food, >> we have to do it >> properly, >> right? >> Thai cuisine. >> So that's that's why we talk a lot. We have a long night, a rough night, a lot to talk about new menu. We taste a lot. We >> try a lot. >> Yes. >> And we also learn a lot from from our uh develop from time to time. >> Like I say, uh like you say, uh when you learn to know how your customer think, maybe you have to adapt. How much do you listen to the customer and how much do you try to inspire the customer? You know, I mean, you're pushing lines with heat that, you know, sometimes people don't, but you know, you can get there because, you know, you can convince them through the textures and the flavors with everything else. But there's a fine line, right, between pressing them a little bit, but not turning them off completely. Do you play with that line a lot when you compose? >> Yeah, >> it's more like this. make more friend because we we we cook something with our hearts first. >> Mhm. >> So, uh if the customer don't get what we want to create, what is the best thing that we create for them? >> It's kind of fine line that that this if they you don't like me, just don't like me. But if you love me, love me. That's that's the fine line that we want. So, uh, it's hard to say, but we don't care much about the customer. >> Yeah. >> That's But I mean, if you're doing what you want to do, you're supposed to be inspiring them. There's supposed to be a baptism or a conversion that happens, right? >> Yes. We just want everyone that that come to our place to think out of the box already when they walk into our restaurant. >> As you can see, we serve food scobby. We do serve something else is that we have some uh mold on our menus on sometime we have some asparagus season. So we put some mold on asparagus. >> He even serve tomato to the one not eating tomato at all. >> Yes. Because my sister don't like tomatoes. So it's why we create that. Okay. You don't like it. There you go. You have it. >> That's that's what it is. >> It is though. It's that resistance and that pushing against, you know, stubbornness that breaks through to brilliant cuisine. It really does, you know. I someone told me one time that nothing you eat can be wonderful unless it breaks a boundary >> in you, >> not just out there, you know, but it's got to do something that kind of takes you. And um it's true, but you have to, you know, and navigating between doing that and making them happy at the end, taking them on a very intense journey, you know. Um, what what is on your menu now that has been in some form or another on there from the beginning from the beginning of the Thai rendition of it? Do you have a staple that you've always stayed with and a main or a starter that you just always stayed with? We just think about uh first of all the texture. Every dish we should have some part. We have we have four part for the main. First of all we have some canopy which is always come with some kind of small bites that you can play around with your hand and fingers. Maybe we can serve it with on your hands first to kind of relax all the customers because sometimes they get nervous into this place. So we have welcome drink, we have some snacks that you can put your hands on it just lick your hand for the flavor something like that. >> Yeah. >> And after that we have some cream which is the appetizer part. >> Sometime we serve with some cold dish sometime serve thing with more fun dish kind of playing around with that. Um and the main course um is very seasonal because something change every time. But one thing that we hold it for a long time is our iconic mushroom rice. >> Mhm. >> Which is the chicken rice but mushroom, >> right? >> So it stays for over two years right now. >> Yeah. >> It's been here for a long time. >> It's a crowdleaser. >> Yeah. this flat and and a lot a lot of thing going on because we don't we say stays for a long time but we kind of developing them every time that we work with >> so it's kind of >> are you classically French trained >> yes >> as a chef okay so here's my question with that I get that I know I know that school that's a whole another podcast but um what elements of your classical French cooking have you brought back into when you touch your Thai cuisine? Now, you know, >> basically they don't it's kind of kind of boundaries that kind of merge together sometimes. >> Um, in French cuisine they have some food processor. In Thai, we have pencil water. You pile things up >> and it's not that different. Even peso in Thai we have Thai peso style but we do in different kind of equipments. >> Yeah, >> we have the same cooking techniques but difference a little bit. Just a little bit. >> The bar is kind of teared down because of just one thing, the heat. >> Yeah. the aromatic, the herbs, the spice, and some ingredients that you can find only in Thailand. That's a lot of greens that basically use holy basil. You cannot find holy basil in any countries because it's only born to be barricad. But sometimes we can put holy bum into just like European cuisine or so. >> And we can put some cream or even something cheesy into Thai cuisine. There's no boundaries about that. >> We can mix things just make it more fun. But about the being taught by French cuisine, French guy taught me a lot about this care about the freshness of the ingredients, the quality that we adapt into the fruit. Vegetables that very important more than meat sometime because they ser preserve some of the meat >> in their way just like lacto fermentation that they basically use for a long time from European just like a sour grout >> right >> or in Asian we have kimchi >> yes >> from Korean in Thai we have some name which is the sour fermented something >> it's kind of same roots but different >> similar processes, similar theories, similar taste that everyone's achieving. >> I see a delicacy with like um the noodle that I just ate that's reminiscent of how a lot of French cuisine approaches their mains with a very delicate cut, a very fine cut, you know, to kind of >> Yeah, exactly. That's fascinating. Do you have um do you have areas that you have brought in that you were like thinking would work and they didn't work? When you're doing these late night collaborations, do you come up with this idea and you're like this is going to be fantastic and it just doesn't work? >> We taste a lot before we put on the menu. We t it a lot a lot a lot every time >> because after after we we kind of creating things at the night We go out look for it. We bought two of the dish that we think they don't kind of bend it up together. They don't even bend up together. We have >> kind of thing just like wasabi and cream. >> Creamy and something kind of tangy heat. But we just use kind of right amount of ratio. >> Yeah. to put things together just like every time we test but a lot of time it doesn't work out just like we have we have scope for a long time we develop them for a long long time >> to make it eatable >> absolutely it's I mean it's experimentation >> like ause a sub rightuse and it's what separates blood from plasma in medicine. >> Yeah. >> But you're using it to >> using it to get like uh the one that we don't want and we only get the pure fail liquid outside of it. >> Unreal. It truly is a lab >> to like distill actual essence and flavor and then you have a dangerous potency. >> You have to be careful with how you're using, right? >> Yeah. Everything. We have to clean our hand a lot. We have to wear gloves when we do something. And some of the machine uh we made it by ourself as well. >> Yeah. >> Because we can't find in Thailand that uh to make like a something on like cow. We didn't have a machine that support us in Thailand. So why not make it ourselves? >> So you made it. If you couldn't find it, you made it. >> Yeah. I think uh we like like you know we not just a chef. We can do everything. >> Yeah. We can creative and we when we cannot find like a the proper machine, why not try to create ourself? >> Absolutely. >> Yeah. >> No barriers. Absolutely. So, what is this? >> Oh, this one is like a ceiling machine we use to sealing our products. >> The ceiling. Okay, I got you. >> Unbelievable. >> So, this is So, you just create whatever you need. If you don't have it, if you can't find it, you're like, we'll build something to do that. What is that? >> That one is also one of our uh >> like a packing machine as well. We put some inside and we uh set the amount and they come out the same amount every time. >> Nice. >> By use like a air pressure inside of it. >> What is this? >> Uh our one of our fun things. You try a lot. So >> it's got layers. >> It has strata, you know. It's What is it? >> It's fermenting thing. I It's a cabbage for three years, I think. >> Three years. >> Yeah. >> Okay. >> We kind of do like a miso like out of them. >> We try and we got s that still got labels on them. >> Yeah. And then back in the corner, >> it's something like honey. So, will you play around with this occasionally? Cuz you don't have a lot. >> Yes. >> So, you'll take a little bit, >> but it's very tasty. So, you don't have to put that much into the menu. >> Maybe we just use like one teaspoon per one pot. >> Brainstorming helpers. Rainer. I see this. >> It's >> brainstorming helpers. Is that whiskey? >> Is it labeled that? >> No, I just called it that. So it's kind of the things that we kind of blind taste >> to the our staff. >> You make your staff blind taste and say what is it? Is it a question and error? Is it like a game? >> We have to do some you get a >> raise because >> uh if they know what it is then they don't express the the first impression with the taste of it. >> Abs I totally agree. I absolutely agree and menus should be like that. Don't need to know what's in it until you add it, right? >> Yes. I love that. This is so much fun. This is where you just play around. What are all of these? >> All right. It's same same things like just like a blind sample. We have some vegan honey. >> Sometime we have to uh separate onto the small amount and give it and uh try to know how far we can push it. >> Yeah. Yeah. And you should because it sounds like the two of you love to push. But how um how often are you in here? How often are you up here? Once a week. >> Every day. >> Every day. >> Every day. >> That's why we work. That's why we say work together. >> Mhm. >> Also, food scientists have to go down every every day. >> Mhm. >> Who comes up with what you're going to mess around with? >> Do you just say, "All right, listen. I've been thinking. Let's get into some cucumbers. Like does that is that what happens or how does it come together? >> It's like uh sometime they like hey I have something to do. >> Yeah. >> I have something here. >> We have some idea. We have some uh a lot of vegetables that came from our farm that too many which is too many. >> Yeah. >> That's why we put Oh, we got a lot of cucumbers. We got a lot of tomatoes. Cherry tomatoes this time this season. What we going to do with it? We lactoer from anything things. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Tomatoes. >> Tomato. >> Yeah. One of one time uh I have some uh tomato juice. >> Mhm. >> But turns into just like an apples >> for fermentation. And uh I like the taste. It's apple. [Laughter] >> We have some honey. >> Oh, >> vegan honey. >> Sugar. I had Okay. And I want you to explain this to me because I went to the >> uh >> what Bangkok branches. >> Uh no, I went to Vivven >> the vegan buffet and they said, "Was your honey there?" >> Yes. Yes. >> How? Everyone was going crazy. I have three children and all of them were going crazy about the honey. How do you make it? Oh, basically it's sugar because you know that how honey made of is uh the bees put some flowers pollen into the place. So we do the same thing but are you getting >> uh we use some uh a lot of different types of sugar blend it up together kind of can caramelize them a little with some flowers with some >> flowers. >> Yes. >> So you went back to the bees you were like what do you do? You do flowers. We do flowers. >> Yeah. We have blowers. Not just flowers. We also have some herbs. A little >> kind of pungent note. >> It's better than honey. It is. No, I'm not kidding. And I I like most things from nature, you know. Um I like things as they grow. I haven't had honey in 15 years, but no, probably about 10. But um the I can taste it. What you're saying, the flowers, all of the the variations and has more notes than honey. It is so good. You could do it. You could you should put it on anything, you know, because it can it can have a representation with like peppers, you know. There should be like a very very spicy honey moment in your life. >> Do you love it? >> I love it. >> And the one thing that good more than the regular honey is you can uh put it in some co uh cold drink and it melts for you. If you use some real honey, >> some real honey, right? But this one is can melt melt it down combine together. It's >> cold. >> Brilliant. How long did it take you to come up with this? >> One year. >> Maybe one. >> Maybe one year. >> Is this your baby? Did you develop this? >> Yes. >> Yes. >> She and another food. >> It's so good. Thank you. >> Yes. You can die happy. This is amazing. Like that. If if you get one thing like that right in your life, you're good. You know, just be a good person from here on out and you're fine. That's amazing. Congratulations. I don't know if I've come up with anything like that, honey, quite yet. But I'll keep trying. I'm going to catch you one way or another. Yeah. >> The world needs it. You could export that. >> Oh, >> yeah. >> You ought. >> Like >> it is so special. They I I mean the amount that my family had and they were drizzling it on bread and then they had the little biscoff or no what are the little um the little pancakes. What were they calling those? >> Um and children put it all over cheese obviously the churi boy all the kids. >> Yeah. She already gave me like inspiration more. >> I'm just rattling things off. Yeah, we'll do that. We'll do that. I put it over their um really spicy vegan cheese and that was like a beautiful marriage for me. But I like that moment. And then um Yeah, it's endless. Come on. From your coffee to your dessert to you know over your >> just like hot honey chicken mushroom or >> Yeah. >> pizza. >> Honey over Yeah. Anything. I mean I like the unexpected. Like you could put your honey with some carrot and come up with like a very interesting metal because carrots love to be candied occasionally. They can go towards that sweet realm particularly when you bake them. Like encouraging that with something like that. That's amazing. Right. >> Yeah. One time we have some smoked carrot >> that tastes like salmon because we kind of imitating things but it's still carrots but smoked. It's very um we put some miso, we have some flavor on that. >> Beautiful. >> And we name it. It's uh carrot Catholic just like salmon Catholic. >> Yeah. >> Yep. >> Also have some beetroot. We put some sauce on that. We have some caviar on that. We have some vegan veggies on that. >> So good. >> Beetroot kind of like a pushetto for the coat as well. >> Yeah. Oh, that's brilliant. It does feel like a procto. The really thinly sliced beetroot. That is awesome. I had not thought about. That's a great pushto like substitution. Wow. We should hang out more. We're all so similar. Don't you feel it? >> What's this? >> It's a incubator, >> which is uh can put things you can put on uh how much the temperature that you want it to. >> Mhm. >> And you also can adjust all the fan and the flaps. So that's basically if you want to make some miso or ki rice for many things, you can set down all the temperature that you want. Just like now it's >> Is it made for food or for animals? For eggs. >> It's for everything. >> For everything. >> But we just adapt. >> Mhm. >> We can put some fans. >> Have all of these toys been here from the beginning or are some new additions? It's been here from the beginning. After one year, after first year, we think that uh food science is going to be one thing that push our menu more further than we know. So that's why we talk a lot that we have to put something just like this over here to fermenting things because the ancient way to preserve some of food is fermentation. you know that fish sauce or garam or miso that gives you a very umami compent complent of the food. That's why we start to to think about that and we put it on over here. Even the drinks put it over here. >> Nice. >> To make sure that we can adjust the temperature properly. >> What about this resistive? >> This one is dehydrated. >> Yeah. We dried everything all the waste of the food after you blend it up after everything you want. We dehydrate them blending through powder because they still got some flavor just like when every time you see all the food, >> you got some kind of uh the bottom of the the pan. So we spread it up, dry it up, blend into powder. So that's why you got just like pumpkin salt. >> Do you dry out your own um herbs and spices? Yes. Yes. Every time you have leftover things, you put it over here. Dehydrate them. Just like your scobbies. Uh we just dust them with some curry powder. This is this machine works over here. Some of the black spice. >> Mhm. >> That put some herb spy over here. Blend it up together in the powder. >> I love it. >> And that's the highlight of the our labs, which is the syn machine. >> Yeah. separates plasma from blood and your teachers from other things. >> Yes. Yes. That's what it is. >> I love it. Do you ever worry about the concentrated like you have this hyper potent thing when you're done? So the amount you use needs to go way down like just a droplet. >> Yes. Right. >> So that's why we have some kind of micro scope. Micro what? >> Uh for bit. >> Okay. Mhm. >> to kind of just use tiny amounts of the things that we want. >> It's so exciting. I've never heard of anything like that being done, but the notion of just extracting like the very raw axiomatic essence of something is just like and what to do with it now. you know, everything from like infused, I don't know, like a mousse or like an essence of something that just needs a drop to like a broth, you know, that can take it to a whole new level. >> Yeah. >> I love that. So, you've been on a little bit of a hiatus. Are you ready to jump back in next week when you open again? >> Ready, man? >> You ready to jump back into service? >> We have to. >> Our customer ready or not ready. >> Our customer is waiting. Yeah. Yeah. So, >> I know they are. Everyone's like, "You know it's closed." I'm like, "I know. I talked to them." Yeah. Everyone knows you're closed and they're waiting >> impatiently. They're ready for you to open. What do you must know? That's awesome. I want to get into partnership and like collaboration and what you have going on here. How's your kitchen? How's the rel the two of you seem thickest as thieves? Tight friends. you know, how is your kitchen and how has it been over the past two years? Do you have a staff retention that's high or do you have a lot of turnover? Have a lot of turnover right now because of the recently we just have some earthquake that very hard. It's maybe 100 years ago that this just like this hard. So some of the customers, some of the our staff living at the condo meeting. So they think back home >> not safe anymore. >> Not safe anymore. So they change to work somewhere else to back to their hometown >> and um some of the outside that they learn a lot about us. They want to create in themselves things. >> Yeah. >> At the place. That's good thing. But that's a good thing. We we are still family. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. And you're still here. >> So, this is working. >> He's been with my by my side for 15 almost 15 years. >> 15. >> We are friends. >> That's family. >> We are we are just >> in the college. >> In the college >> and >> college. A >> and we work together >> a long time ago. >> A long time we can work together like >> because it's hard. >> Yeah. >> Some to find someone who can, you know, it's a lot of angry, a lot of emotional in kitchen. >> Yeah, I know. >> How is it in Thai kitchen? Same. >> It's the same. It's the same. Yeah, but same. But but something that we love is we love all the things in the kitchen. We love all the fire elements. from all the sadness pressure that >> pressure that we have have in the kitchen together and after after working hours it's over. >> We just have one cigarette or one whatever. >> Yeah. >> And what we miss when we last night tonight what we can do we we can work together because we >> we say service is service. When we done the service, it becomes like >> we don't care about what we shout each other in the future service. >> Yeah. During the service or we throw it something each other >> or we uh like uh say the curse word to each other in the kitchen. But when the service is over, it's over. >> We become afraid. We talk a lot. We talk together a lot and we like clear our mind. >> Yeah. >> And talk to each other like today what what we miss. >> Mhm. >> Okay. I know that right now next time this will be miss again. >> Yeah. >> That's why uh we can work like with each other a lot for this long. Yeah. For this one. >> How long have you been cooking? Oh, since I can't remember, I think. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Because I helped my grandma since I was a child and Yeah. >> Do a lot of Thai men learn how to cook. Is it common in the culture? M for now I think but maybe not for not not me for because it's they not learn because they love it. Maybe it's been forced too soon. >> Yeah, they for my mom's my grandma forced me to put the kitchen because I always walk and run around in the house and break new things. >> You're going to start cooking. >> Yeah. >> So that's wonderful. That's my my my grandma say, "Oh, we want to kind of spread it out." >> Yeah. >> You got to be in the kitchen with me. >> Okay. So, that's why we start to pound things up with special motor. >> Yeah. Get you your your nice powders going. Did um does she know you became a chef? Is she still alive? >> Sadly, she didn't have time to know. >> Yeah. >> That I became a chef after her. >> Who rents front of the house? front of the house >> like is there a difference between front and kitchen like people running like host seating tables like front of the house >> same like this we work all together >> we all together we have our food scientist which is our one of the founders >> but he's not here today uh we work a lot because one of the founders been my friend for my all of my life I would say I born to get him after that time. So he's full scientist also. So he work in front of the house. We talked a lot and we worked a lot because we invented things together and okay we we let's say we separate part of the work together. You doing things we can do that we can do that but every time we talk every night we talk we talk >> what we miss at the end of the night. How many founders are there? You >> We have three of the of the founders. Uh >> chef and founder. >> No, >> just chef. >> Yeah, >> we have uh one me as a chef, >> one food scientist and uh other one fathers where can respond all the chats, all the messages or the kind manage back of the house of the restaurant. >> Okay. and 400 hours. Me and my food size is basically all the my staff we work together to take care all the customer, the food, drinks, everything together. >> How often how how many hours are you open? Do you do lunch and dinner? >> We do lunch and dinner at the weekend. >> On the weekend only. >> Only. And after that from Monday to Friday, we have some RD part. We have some uh we have to created things all the time. Uh we have some kind of menu factor to all the part of the restaurant that they want some even cavier or uh any go some of the restaurant they don't like to spend that much money >> on the cavier >> right. >> So we have some cavitation from parents but it's worked. It's give them some money to the restaurant. So that's that's what we spend. >> It's a weekend the week doing and then you're open on the weekends. >> Yes. >> Are you usually booked solid every weekend? >> Yeah. >> Friday, Saturday, Sunday. >> Uh it's just uh Saturday and Sunday. >> Saturday and Sunday. Um >> where did the plant-based influence come from? And who came up with the name cats? Canes. >> Canes is stand for Z, A and E is depends differently. But uh as you can see the picture over there, we have some concepts of the I would say the world after I would say long time over here that all the animals they can live together. They don't eat each other. They don't kind of have something that they do together. They just plan something to eat. It's from that picture. That's why we put all the floor, all the concept menus to over here. And K is K. So, uh we think that since we were born, we are kids, we have someone to take care >> just like Kes to kind of take care of self after we age. >> I like that. Yeah, that's why we stand for games. >> Beautiful. So, is everyone who works here plant-based or is it just the restaurants? >> Uh, one of the founders is plant-based. >> The one who created name of Kings. >> Okay. I see. >> Is plant-based, but I'm a part-time plant. Yeah. >> Because we have to kind of eat a lot of things. >> Sure. You know that everyone in Bangkok talks about this place, right? Because everybody and I make it my business when I land in a city to investigate to talk to a lot of people. And I'm talking people from areas in Bangkok that don't know each other. I'll mention you. I'll mention Kades. They're like, "You need to eat there." Everyone says it. They're like, "If you're doing this, you have to reach out to Canes." Everyone who doesn't know you, who doesn't know different things. So, this place, I have to say, the location, I was like, "That's interesting." Yeah. It's not down. I'm I'm next to Lupini Park. I thought you might be right there. You know, something like that. Um, but nobody cares. And everyone's like, "It's a bit away and it's worth it." You know, that's like what everyone says. It's almost part of what adds to it. So, have you ever had any problem with the location or are you very happy with it? You have four floors. You got plenty of space, >> but um is it is the location still working for you? Would you ever open another one or is it No. >> No, I would say no. >> Yeah, you got plenty going on. >> The the one they say we are the first plant-based financial backup. >> Mhm. >> I would say Southeast Asian >> as I know. So that's why we talk they talk a lot because doing tasting menu foring courses with Jewish parent six years ago they don't even know what plant-based is what vegan is. >> Yeah. >> But you do. So you kind of encourage yourself to do something new something that they don't even try or to understand things. Bangkok is becoming known as the food capital of the world. Everybody's mentioning it alongside New York, Paris, you know, all of these different Italy, like abroad. They're talking about Bangkok starting to become known as a food mecca, especially in Southeast Asia. It's getting mentioned everywhere. Um, and in like in the USA where I'm from, it has u there's one vegan restaurant right now that just earned a Michelin star. So people are starting to, you know, wake up to that. Can you feel Bangkok kind of coming alive as a food capital of the world? Have you seen that change? >> Yes. >> Yeah, I can too. >> Because the third star plant-based fighting restaurant at New York City is the one of the top restaurant in the world, which is the 11 minutes park. >> Yeah. They turned into vegan plant-based five restaurant that still got three star. >> That's a lot of things going on in in vegan plant-based food or >> regular food. people aware more aware about how much we could cook just like me because last time before I I start to cook vegan >> um I think about steaks meat it's kind of main actress >> of the dish >> vegetable is just like something else >> but this time we changed our mind >> I want to create the the dish that we look for some vegetables at the main actress of the dish and we have some sauce as a actor or something. We have some kind of costume that we can dress it up just like leaves or flowers on the dish just make it look just like movies to make a famous things because it's story. >> Yes. >> Doing fine is kind of storytelling things. >> Yeah. So we have to cast in all the things properly to put just one whole story >> and it was it was an entire production. You know that's and you're ready for it. >> You're you're you're here for it. I I see like stars in your future. This is you know the what I just tasted was like a representation of eliminating notions of what vegetables were and bringing them into what they are. you know and it was there was just nothing missing and um that is like is a complete story right it's complete movie that's how it works >> did you choose the space or did it choose you >> choose me choose us because uh one of the our founders own this place already >> after we open it before you open it so that's why we don't have to pay a lot about rental Yeah, >> in the downtown. >> I like it. It's got dark academia vibes. >> Oh, >> right. >> We changed a lot about the building process. >> And your bathroom is a trip. That's so fun. >> It's the same same guy that painted up all this restaurant. Just one guy. Just one guy. >> One man. >> One man painted up all >> He's still He's still young. What? Maybe 40, 35. >> Oh, no. 35. >> He just came in here >> and paint it up. And the bathroom with all those animals and the black light effect. You got to see the bathroom. It's pretty phenomenal. >> It is. I love it actually. It makes me feel safe. >> It's like at least in the world. >> It's like paints. I mean, it took inspiration from these photos or paintings you were talking about. >> Uh when do you reopen? We going to reopen that maybe next week. >> Okay. >> Right now because >> about the earthquake we have uh to check to check out all the building construction >> but it's okay right now. It's still okay. >> Was everyone okay? Everyone here was okay. >> Still here. We have some uh a bit crash on the building. We have a bit place that go around to the before >> a little but we have to check down once again because next week we're going to change our meals again. That's that's the point. That's the point. >> And I mean whole menu and whole drinks again. >> I would come every week if cuz you're changing it. I would I would just want to know what's going on. I would want to look for the changes. You know that's a ride. That's something you want to be on. This is I've eaten all over the world vegan food. I've spoken to over at least 300 vegan entrepreneurs, chefs, restaurant owners. This is in the top three. Unbelievable. I love it. I love everything that you're doing here. What else can you tell me? What final things can you tell me that I haven't asked about about canes or what you're doing here or what the future of here looks like? too because me personally I would proud myself as we are the best in fining in these countries. >> So we keep developing things every time every day. So we we not going to stop this. We going to do it until we cannot do it anymore. So that's why that's why we kind of invented or creating things every time. >> Yeah. >> What I seen K from now on I would say I would say one of the best vegan restaurant in the world. That's what that's what I dreamed about. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. That's what I dreamed about. >> I see that for both of you. the dessert menu because that gives a lot of chefs a lot of trouble or happiness depending on where the chef comes from and how they embrace it. But I've known a lot of restaurants that are like just do some ice cream. I don't know. You know, it's it's it's just not something they love. How do you treat your desserts? >> It's easy. >> Very easy. We have food scientists. >> We have No, we have food scientist. Even in Thai cuisine, they uh Thai dessert, they got some egg. >> So, we talk to a food scientist. Do we have it? We can do it. >> Yeah. Let's do it with a vegan egg. >> Vegan egg. We had some vegan egg yolk. >> You have a vegan egg pictured on your menu and it looks it's cut in half. It looks like an actual egg. It's a dish. Yeah. >> Unbelievable. >> And these are your food scientists. That's what they're doing. >> Yeah. That's that's why we have a food scientist and chef works together. >> Yeah. >> And I that's why I say it's easy. Very easy. >> Do you What's your favorite dessert? Both of you. For me, uh, in French, my favorite one is >> mil, >> but in Thai, we call it ko, which is kind of steamed, sticky rice >> with some uh coconut and palm sugar flavor inside, >> but it's vegan, but it's more vegan. >> It's delicate. I mean, is it similar to like mango sticky rice? Is it kind of like that or no? >> Mango sticky rice kind of kind of. It depends on seasonal. >> Mhm. >> Just like you have a great wine >> this year. We have very great wine because of the the weather grapes grapes that you can find. Just like mango sticky rice. >> Some of the year I love mango sticky rice. The song of the years is very sour, very not that good. But even the rice is important because we use kind of sticky rice >> to >> to put it's just like the whole grains, but some of the they don't >> the rice isn't the crop isn't right. I learned a lot about that in Bali, the sticky rice crop. It's much more tricky as well. >> Interesting. What's your favorite dessert? >> Uh me personally, I'm not the dessert guy, but You're not a dessert guy. What's your favorite me? >> Uh, for me, I really love like a pre-dessert of our restaurant more >> because it like the the pallet cleansing your palette before you walk through the main dessert. >> Uh, it's like a so or something to cleansing your palette. >> And that one I think and we use some local uh fruit or >> flowers >> flowers as well to teachers >> to teachers. It's flowers that gives you kind of sourness a little bit but still got kind of gingery flavor made from flowers. >> Nice. >> That's very nice. >> Yeah, that's nice. A delicate ginger flavor never hurt anyone. >> It's the place that you just have the main course. You have to kind of bind it up, blend it up with some more dessert. So, you still needs to get some kind of savory and you still need some something sweet. And we put some like Thai culture inside of it as well. Like uh in Thai culture we will eat like a sour fruit with some dipping sauce of Thailand is like a mixture of >> uh sugar and some crown chili. >> Mhm. >> But instead of something like that instead uh we made like a caramel crispy caramel crispy caramel top. >> Oh that would host it quite well I think. Yeah, >> a lot of customer like that. >> That's brilliant. Wow, that's fun. Yeah, the two of you do have a good time. Just saying. >> That sounds like some people like you are alcoholic. No, I just like to have a good time. >> I just supporter. So, I have to support him. So, I'm alcoholic. I love it. >> What is your favorite thing to cook on the menu right now? >> For me, it's mushroom. >> I hate mushroom from since I was a kid. >> I hate mushroom. I would say I hate mushroom. But after we open up this restaurant, >> we get to know each other more and more and more. We know what is the reason that I hate them. They know how to get to know me. >> That's why that's why I love mushroom so much right now. >> Brilliant. >> That's what we we we live right now because we after we kind of know externally I love mushroom. I like to cook mushroom. There's something more we can put into um science things. We have some uh refrigerated cents which is the machine that run the blood taste. >> We put mushroom on that and we got very concentrated mushroom just like we have truffle. >> Yeah. >> But juice. >> Wow. >> We have a lot of >> What are you doing with that? We kind of kind of sie them, soak them into the water, blend it up together and just uh kind of shield it overnight and put into the central machines kind of it's kind of cold reducing because uh you know that in core world we cooking we reduce down to make it more kind of intense flavor. >> Yeah. >> But something you lose is flavor. M. >> So we have co reducings with the machine that you don't lose any flavor on that. So we have very intense mushroom concentrated on the sauce. >> That's fun. >> Yeah, that's the secret of >> lion's mane gets a lot of love right now. A lot of use. Do you ever play with that? >> Yep, we play with that a lot. >> Yeah, >> they some of a lot of people play with some steaks with some beetroot some flavor. They charcoal or not, >> but we never do that mushroom steak, right? >> No, you just make a chicken pop. >> Yes. Just when is just they look like that. We just coat it up with some of the something like >> an orange chicken. >> Yeah, that's what I think of. >> We kind of shred it up just like a shredded chicken. Something like that. >> Yeah. Chef Pal in Sherin Vegan Buffet. She does like a CFC lion's mane battered chicken. >> Like that's what she calls it. So it is what I think of too. Exactly. >> Fantastic. It has been such a pleasure speaking with both of you. I want to say thank you so much. Chef Chef, I really appreciate you. You're wonderful. I see Michelin here. I really do. It's happening. And I covered you first. >> Good. and I covered it. I called it. Thank you so much. I appreciate you. Thank you so much. >> Thanks for listening to Borderless. I hope you enjoyed this conversation. If you like this episode, please subscribe so that you can continue to hear fascinating conversations as I continue to wander the globe. You can follow us on Instagram at borderless-podcast or head over to our website borderless-podcast.com for more info and updates. This episode was produced by Patricia Kathleen Productions. And a special thank you to the team that makes it all happen. Charie Turnate, Emma Baker, and Finn Wild. Wherever you are in the world, I hope our conversation made you feel a little more seen and connected. Until next time, take good care. [Music]