# Bali Sruti Denpasar Bali

Published: 2025-08-21

[Music] It's really tuggle to talk about domestic violence especially in Bali with Balinas women they don't want to talk about the the violence they experience sexual abuse they don't want and it's really actually it's really hard for us to discuss about it but we try like um we have uh in in Balisri for example we have scholar puan art women's school uh it's not like school have building or teacher no in that community we discuss about politics uh uh uh violence for the vulnerable women. Hi, I'm Patricia Kathleen. I travel the world with a mic in hand and questions to ask. And this is where those conversations live. My guests and I get into everything. Work, identity, creativity, purpose, the big stuff, the messy stuff, and the stuff that actually matters. From alleyway chats to studio sitdowns, I bring you with me as I talk to chefs, scientists, artists, activists, whoever around me has a story worth hearing. Wherever you're listening from, welcome. I'm glad you're here. Now, let's get into it. >> I'm sitting down today with Gusty Au and Dani Perivi. >> Uh she's the secretary uh one of the secretaries of Bali. >> Thank you so much for meeting with me. I do appreciate you. [Music] >> Who founded Bali and what was the event or why was it founded? What was the reason for founding it? >> Okay, so the founder of Balisr uh Balisrai was founded by Ibulin Rahayu. uh she's an election commissioner uh ibuan a gender studies expert and also ibulusumawati a bit of so what event yeah make balisi actually at first ibulog working as a commissioner right so uh as commissioner she realized that it's really hard to meet 30% photo of female legislative join in politics uh and H in fact she became a she could become a commissioner because of 30% quot affirmative action policy. So she felt it strong responsibility to give back to encourage uh vines women in poly case. Yeah. And then and and beyond politics she uh she also saw so many gender inequalities >> especially in workplace area or and family and this experiences um inspire her to take action with together with Ibusita and Ibulo Kusumawati they founded Palis. >> So the three Yes. And that was in 2004. >> Yes. So the impetus the the reason for starting it was kind of at like their life >> experiences of experiencing inequality and wanting to encourage that. So as I was researching Bali struti and looking into it, I find it um to be kind of wonderful because it addresses Balinesian culture >> without trying to fight the so one of the beautiful things about Bali is that it insists on retaining its culture. Yeah. >> And so this addresses that without changing it. And so to that end, I want to get into three terms that um it would be helpful for everyone to unpack just looking at bings and culture. So I'm going to say all three and then I will define them in the way that I understand them and I would love for you to clarify that for me. >> So the first one is hookum adat and that is the rules and taboss that govern the island's population and specifically each village on the in the island has different adat. they have different rules that like can change a little bit from village to village. >> The second one is um perusa which is a child in the family. It can be male or female but it's traditionally uh the male children and it's the one who carries on what's called the family obligations. >> Okay. The third one is pranana and that's could be a male or female child but it's traditionally the female and it's that person that marries out and moves away when they married to that person's family. >> So the first one I would love for you to clarify is hukum adat. How how would you change what I said in regards to it's the taboss or the rules that govern the villages? Is that true? >> Mhm. >> Is that how you would define it? Yeah, actually adat is uh simply we can say every places in Bali have their adat. Uh we call it the sakalapatra. Uh it means every places in Bali have their own rule for their places. But >> yeah, I think it's true. >> Okay. Okay. >> So getting into perusa and um kanana these things are important because this is where gender gets assigned but it's also flexible because if a family has um one female one male that makes sense each role gets assigned but if a family has all daughters or all sons then the role that is traditionally given to men perusa gets assigned to a woman And vice versa if it's all men. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> But traditionally it's handed to a a man perussa. Correct. >> Yeah. But uh I want to explain a little bit more. Uh actually it's really hard to explain pura and praata because it it's um cultural thing. >> Uh purusa is we always uh mostly interpret it as a man. But actually purusa can be a man or a woman. But they have uh they will carry out their own obligation uh and they will carry like an air they will be an airir to their plan n the family. >> So when you say family obligation that means staying in the family home. >> Correct. >> And that means taking care of all the things that come with the family name. >> Yes. Correct. But it can be a men and women but mostly uh women as uncommon thing in Bali. M >> so uh prenana well meanwhile prenana it can be a man and a woman who uh after their marriage no longer have obligation in their their in their family previous and they will have their obligation in the spos family. So uh yeah still uh a man who can be a pred is uncommon thing in Bali. That's why uh mostly uh Purusa they always we Balinist always interpreted Purusa as a man. That's why um men has like a privilege their room >> and I think it it leads to gender inequality in Bali. >> Yeah. Because the role of maintaining the name is maintaining the property, >> the political power, the financial power, those are all captured in that. >> Yes. So while it can be a man or a woman, if you had a perussa that was a woman, she would be looking for a piranana that was a man because he would have to come live with her. >> Yes. >> And because so traditionally >> if uh women in Bali get married, they move to their husband's house. >> And I think that that's something that is what we're setting up with these two terms. >> So perusa is the man who stays at the house and the wife is put on and she comes to the person's house. So there's a division of holding the power with the money, the name, the title and then there's also the person that has to move away and >> um actually absorb another culture. Yes. >> Because villages like if you have someone from Ubud that marries someone from Changangu and she's from Ubud and she comes down to Chingu, the two different villages have very different cultures. >> Yeah. Yes. Correct. and they actually have different dialects that they speak in. And she's expected to >> learn that dialect, use that dialect and and absorb that culture, >> assimilate. >> Yeah. For example, like me, I'm from Karasam, but uh I'm married to Cetan in here. It's different culture and the the language in Karasam we have to speak in all like language palines language and we have like different stuff of the language in in Karahasam but in here it's so different it's like so it's like culture shock for me and I need to learn more about the the language in here and I mean like Balines language in here is so different with Karangasam because in Karangas polite and in here not so polite. Okay. And then the I I need to learn about banton. We call it banton. >> Uh when balin ceremony balin ceremony we offer banton to the god and I need to learn that because it's so different from karangasam and it's kind of culture shock at first. >> Yeah. >> Because uh in one month there will be like more than three ceremonies in here. Meanwhile in Karangas uh I'm not really active >> because I I'm still single at that time but in here I need to like then ceremon. >> Yeah. >> So it's different and I think that's the first thing that people when they're looking at Bali overlook or don't understand is >> um until 1970s there wasn't even a Balinesian language. There was Indonesian and then every single village and tribe had their own language. So it was so many to learn and absorb and things like that. And I think that that's crucial to understand like when you're looking at the power shift, >> you have someone who has the name who's carrying along the hereditary, the error line, >> but they're also carrying the money, the culture that gets shared next with the children. >> And so a Balinesian woman who's following that traditional cultural tract is expected to if she doesn't marry someone in her village, >> learn a whole new culture when she chooses to marry. >> Correct. So that's a another undertaking. >> Yeah. >> And then you have a whole new family that you're living with as well, which is an interesting thing. [Music] So um we've unpacked that. What I'm interested in Bali is with the gender equality when you start looking at in our current times the outreach the goals of outreach the goals of talking about gender equality you have communities that you look at you talk to academics you talk to future politicians one of the goals is to encourage women >> to go out and become involved in politics to vote to run for office things like that >> what outreach programs do you do how do you get the word out there when Bali is kind of based on villages. >> Oh, okay. Uh actually in our program we combine conventional activism and digital activism. >> We still doing like a face-to-face meeting uh to do like trainings, workshop or socialization in campus or anywhere. But after that we share our activist activities to our social media to uh to reach wider audience. So social media really help us to like people will know they uh like balisert has this activity because if we just do conventional activism without doing digital activism without sharing it to social media people don't know people will don't know our activities in in balis roti what is balisi they don't know but we need to do like uh share it to social media and until now it's still working >> is social media helping are enough Balines people on >> social media that you're able to get the word out. >> Yes, true. Social media really help us to like reach them >> to like educate people through social media. We uh we uh every week we always like doing uh live Instagram and uh podcast in our studio and then we share it to YouTube. That really help us to like uh so people know our activives. [Music] I want to shift a little bit here. So, um, part of this is due to my own perspective and definitely not something that is culturally written about Bali, but Bali has a reputation for being peaceful and kind. They've been um and this is arguable but um when people when tourism talks about it there's been this incredible push by the government to insist on traditional Bolognese and ways the children are required to learn things from their traditional things at school and um simultaneously allowing like this tourism and this moment of tourism to happen while still retaining traditional ways and so encountering Bali from that aspect as a tourist myself first visit visiting there's a lot of peacefulness that happens with it. So when I first started looking at um Bali struti and someone looking at gender equality frequently cultures that are known for being kind and peaceful have a very intense aspect of don't discuss it if it isn't. So when you get into issues of domestic violence or anything like that it's already taboo amongst the culture. So therefore discussing it is even more taboo right coming forward there's very frequently um very few institutions that will discuss it things of that nature because it's already seen as something that's very inappropriate for the culture >> so I'm wondering with Bali did you have you looked at that does the company have like an outline what how would you say the domestic violence if there is any in Bali is being handled are There are avenues or outlets that women and children can go to to discuss issues of domestic violence. >> Yeah, that's correct. It's really tu to talk about domestic violence especially in Bal with Balinas women. They don't want to talk about the the violence they experience sexual abuse. They don't want and it's really actually it's really hard for us to discuss about it. But we try like um we have uh in in Balisri for example we have scholar prauan art women school >> uh it's not like school have building or teacher no in that community we discuss about politics uh uh uh violence for the vulnerable women respal [Music] face to face >> because if they don't want to talk But uh domestic violence in in community they don't want but we try to talk like domestic space just two of us like that that's uh that's the only the only way to talk about domestic violence with with them but still we try to uh give socialization in community about domestic uh violence. You don't need to be afraid to talk about them. It's it's it's okay. It's normal. That's normal >> like that. So is there anything set up in the village system, you know, in the like the ad that like anything that happens where women or men can go and speak to like an elder or someone that they can say this isn't really working out if they have a problem? Is the Bonesian culture set up? Can you speak to your parents about it? Can you speak to someone in like a counselor or something like that? like a wise person in the village where you can come and say, "I've got this problem." A young married couple starts off. Everything's always supposed to be perfect. I It doesn't work that way. Like, who do they who do they talk to? Just their friends, just their family when they have problems. Oh, okay. I I think it's really hard for them to talk to active even with the family, but mostly uh with family. But they will keep >> they will Yes. mostly they will keep it because it's it's like spreading bad rumor. If if everyone know that they have like they experience domestic violence or sexual abuse in sync. >> So they will they mostly keep it or just go to the police. >> Yeah. >> Just to like report the the domestic child. >> Have you had women reach out to Bali that say I heard about you and I need to talk to someone about this. I'm having issues in these areas and I thought you could help me. so many in our Instagram but uh yeah but again they would uh talk like prankly they don't want to be exposed >> they just want help me just just help you but don't don't tell anyone I see for help like that so they they come in in Balisi but they don't want to be exposed they don't want to talk to everyone just one person in Balis he's like that so it's is it's private thing yeah >> I think everywhere it And that's getting communities who are being hurt. That I think the reason why it is so prolific abusive systems is because there's a shame attached to it for the victims >> and the punishment of that is you know outward social shaming. Um when what are the first avenue if you're going to help someone who says I'm suffering from domestic abuse, you know, any kind of domestic abuse, >> is the first line of um of help >> to educate them? How do you do you provide resources? Do you tell them about their legal rights? >> Do you put them in contact with anyone? How what is the first line of help? Okay. The first line of help is like we will ask them what do you want me to help you there? Do you want me to uh help you to go to the police or just simply educate you? Educate your spouse maybe. Yeah. We ask them what what they want to do. >> Okay. >> Okay. So you have the social media and then you have the traditional campaigning. >> And the traditional campaigning is literally I'm assuming going into villages and talking with people. >> Yeah. >> So when you enter into a village to just um educate and let people know who Bali is and what you offer and things like that, do you set up a meeting? How do you do that? >> Yeah, we set up a meeting in uh in one places in in village. We set up a meeting and they cut. >> Mhm. >> Yeah. They they they count uh like more than uh 30 person 30 people like Yeah. >> Wow. Okay. So they are there is interest every step of the time >> and that's it. I think in in every area it's social media but also the traditional setting up a meeting doing a face to face letting people know you're there other than resources that you have. Um, as far as your funding and affiliations, I don't it an nonprofit a non-government organization is so difficult and so hard. I've never met a country that it's easy to set one up in and I don't know anything about setting one up here. >> So, how hard is it to establish one? And what does it mean for your funding? >> Okay. Uh actually it's really hard without funding but in Balis Ruti uh we don't actively seek funies uh we still operate operate with our own funds I mean the direct the funds yeah and uh we use like um the networks so for example if you want to educate people with our social media we we do like live Instagram and I will be the interviewer and the uh The speaker is Bulu Networks. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Something like that. But but since 2022 there's funding. Uh the name of the program is Sid Bushian program. It's from Australia. But before that there's no funding. So gradually uh the former member of Balis Ruti they left to pursue their career uh getting married or because there's no salary in here. So there's no human resources in Balisi. H fun fact I had planned to close Balis Rupy in 2020 but then I come to Balis came to Balis at that time I joined to Balis and that Ibulu had no idea what should we do with young with young uh with young member only one and then Ibulu had planned to uh like yeah just doing do like Instagram >> just uh educate people uh with our Instagram account and then because uh face toface meeting were not allowed at that time because of the pandemic but >> yeah after that there's a pandemic >> so who found the um sister company in Australia to get the funding >> uh they found us >> they found you >> oh how wonderful yeah they found us they uh it's a G2G uh program government to government actually the program is to a big NGO from Jakarta and then the the NGO from Jakarta they want us to join the the the program >> like an umbrella existing underneath all of that. I see. So when people have you been contacted by people if someone was a tourist in Bali and someone who was very um passionate about gender equality and wanted to donate um like their time or money, would you have a way for them to be able to volunteer or donate their it because it's such a cultural thing and it's Bologneseian women speaking to Balinesian women on a lot of these efforts. It sounds like it's not a good thing for a tourist or a foreigner to do. >> But as far as contributing financially, that can be done on your website. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> But what about other like volunteer opportunities for nonvalues and people to contribute to BART? >> Yeah, we are so offer for the the foreigners if they want to volunteer in Baui. Uh actually uh there's there's a there's student not from Dali I mean like from German they they text us in and they said they sent uh an email in Balisi you want to like to intern in Balis >> right I was thinking about internship >> yeah internship in Balisi but I think uh she still like she still needs to fix the the administration thing in there. >> Yeah. >> So you're open to it? >> Oh yeah. someone wants to pitch you, they need to come up with an idea and you're going to let them volunteer with you. >> Yeah, of course. >> That's wonderful. Yeah. I mean, I think that there's a lot of people. >> I've speak to a lot of charities and there are a lot of international students that are very interested in working with NOS's in other countries >> and starting that up themselves instead of you having something they can join saying, >> "Great, what do you want to do for us? You want to create more of a website? What do you want to work with us? What you have any help that people can do? I think that's cool to be open and say hitch us we'll do ways. >> Yes. Correct. >> And you are open to receiving help from people. >> Well, it's really always opens for foreigners, for local that that's okay. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. [Music] >> What are the future plans 2025? Do you have a 5year plan? How does Bali Streets look at that? Is it a one-year plan 2025 to 2026 or neepi to neepy as it were? You know, but it what are the plans for what you're doing? Is it just keep doing what you're doing? Is it growth? How does that look like? >> Okay. For this year, uh we always set up our one-year plan. Okay. for 20 uh 2025 we still doing uh the program inclusive program and of course uh we want be to be more active in social media not only Instagram YouTube we want to be active in YouTube that's why we make our studio then >> yeah we want uh we want to interview more people so we can be more active in in our our YouTube uh social media especially in social media we want to like make it bigger >> and to reach more people not only in Bali but also not not in Bali uh in Indonesia or uh western it's okay. >> Yeah. Southeast Asia everywhere reaching out. I think that that's it's happening for everyone and it's crucial to do that kind of global relationship >> is really important. Um I'm interested for me personally I'm very um invested in future change. And I think a large part of it has to do with a lot of what Bali struti is invested in with like educating and encouraging women to get into politics, encouraging them to vote, encouraging them to play a role in that. And I'm wondering if um like does Bali struti have any current goals about like educating women like before elections do you have moments where you send out social Instagram saying everyone please go out and vote telling women what they are voting like what's on what's being voted for you know rules and customs and things that like actually help with them knowing what's being voted on. >> Okay. Uh yeah of course before election uh of course Badis Ruti always have like a seminar for women who wants to join politics or yeah seminar about politics but I did recently because the only one who's uh active in politics only our director with the background politics uh me not no and and the other member no uh I don't know for the future because Ibulo I think yeah Um maybe she needs to retire from politics but um maybe still give like educational politic education for for woman who wants to join politics but 5 years uh 10 years uh after this I don't know >> yeah it's time time is happening. Yeah, >> the founder, one of the three founders is an academic, you know, and speaks about gender equality and things like that. This current headquarters is based in someone's home. Is it one of the three founders? >> Yeah, that's what I thought. So, I just wanted to draw that connection together. >> But, um, it's kind of a rare person who would be able to be involved in gender equality and host the house out of Islu married. Yeah, of course. >> Okay. And so that's kind of a different Bologneseian relationship. She's hosting >> not just ideas of that nature, but her very home is the host of that idea, >> you know, and those efforts. Does her family is she considered very different because of those goals in her Balinesian family or is it >> No, it's normal because because in Cetan the gender inequality is not really you know it is it's not like gender inequal I mean like gender equality and gender inequality is not really like it's not really hard in here. I mean like uh there's no gender inequality in Seetan. I mean like uh maybe in another place is still but in Satan I didn't I didn't see it. >> Mhm. >> Yeah. That's why when Ibulo Yeah. hosting like Bali's routine here it's it's not weird thing. >> No it's considered and normal. >> Yeah. Fine. >> Excellent. Um so the future is looking towards um ramping up your social media, encouraging the international dialogue, the Indonesian dialogue, then maybe Southeast Asia, then maybe the world. >> Yeah. >> Um and doing all of that. Is there anything that I haven't asked about that you're looking at focusing on? >> Actually, uh the thing that we're uh I'm focusing on is about collaboration. Mhm. >> We still want to do collaboration not only uh in Indonesia but also uh international and this collaboration is really good for us because as uh as our name balisi mean voice. So we still want to speak up about a palinist woman. So I think this is good collaboration between me and you. >> Yes. >> Yeah. speak out about Palina uh the situation of in in Bali and about Palinist group. >> I feel fortunate to have found and I did it just by searching um women's groups in Bali. You know, it was a Google search, but I was like, I want to talk to a women's group. There are some charities here that deal with um impoverished children and different things like that. But >> groups dealing with women, you know, directly for me affect children because I have yet to hit a culture where women and children are not handinand. And so I love the educational aspect and and the growth. I'm so glad it didn't close in, you know, in 2020. I want to clarify one thing. So there is no salary made to anyone working for street. >> It'd be cool if that changed. >> There's a salary and fun fact, I'm the uh her daughter-in-law. >> That's why in here is like Yeah, that's okay. Even without salary, it's okay. Yeah. And my uh and also I have PhD student. So my interest is in gender women's issue. That's that's why I want to be here. Still wants to be here and even with a salary that's okay. >> That's wonderful. >> Well, I'm glad for you. I'm glad that you have the mother-in-law that you have and I'm glad that she is you because I think that keeping it going is crucial, you know. >> Absolutely. Thank you so much for sitting down with me. I appreciate you. Thanks for listening to Borderless. I hope you enjoyed this conversation. If you like this episode, please subscribe so that you can continue to hear fascinating conversations as I continue to wander the globe. You can follow us on Instagram at borderless-odcast or head over to our website borderless-podcast.com for more info and updates. This episode was produced by Patricia Kathleen Productions and a special thank you to the team that makes it all happen. Charie Turnate, Emma Baker, and Finn Wild. Wherever you are in the world, I hope our conversation made you feel a little more seen and connected. Until next time, take good care.