# The Raw Temple Ubud

Published: 2025-08-23

and that we need to tune in with that like and the foods that we've been eating uh as a masses were most likely designed to disconnect us from from our true source and from what we are capability and we just need to come back to that. The more that we um live in touch with our our health like the the closer we're going to become like back to our source. >> Yeah. >> It's remembrance of who we really are and what we're capable of. Hi, I'm Patricia Kathleen. I travel the world with a mic in hand and questions to ask. And this is where those conversations live. My guests and I get into everything. Work, identity, creativity, purpose, the big stuff, the messy stuff, and the stuff that actually matters. From alleyway chats to studio sitdowns, I bring you with me as I talk to chefs, scientists, artists, activists, whoever around me has a story worth hearing. Wherever you're listening from, welcome. I'm glad you're here. Now, let's get into it. >> Like, you're the founder and creator of the Raw Temple. Did you co-found it and co-create it? >> Uh, it's mostly just me. Uh, I've had like a team of people with me like throughout that have changed as well. Uh, I think everything you need to co-create, you know, like you can't do anything in in this world alone for sure. But 100% it was my dream to make a raw food restaurant when >> I became a raw food person. [Music] It just quickly became less places in Ubud that you couldn't solely get raw food. >> Yeah. >> Actually, at the time there was only Ben's Seeds of Life restaurant that you could only get raw food from, which I think he's now in a way changing more to a collaboration of raw and cooked similar like somewhere like Alchemy or Yeah. >> Sur's place, you know. So the like the term raw as we were talking about earlier it means some different things to different people. You know a lot of people attach raw to vegan but there are raw food people that consume non-vegan things as well >> because you can consume meat raw. >> So for you does the term raw also imply vegan >> or does it does it not have to be? Well, raw has its own meaning, but uh uh I'm a raw vegan and this is a raw vegan restaurant. So, to me solely interested in raw vegan foods and plant-based foods. Um I think like uh for me raw food is more of a health path. It's also a spiritual path. >> Yeah. Uh I found that uh the name the raw temple is because the body is the temple and if you eat raw food you're cleaning your temple and you're going to have a spiritual experience. I mean you you we're all having a spiritual experience but we become more conscious of what's our our being. Yeah. Everybody's busy doing >> Yeah. But when you start to slow down and be a bit more conscious about what we posting in our in our letter box and uh and then you know we are what we eat in a sense that's very real. Uh I find it very closely connected to my emotional experience. Like if I'm not eating well I'm having a very like difficult emotional life. But if I'm I'm I'm keeping it light or like just juicing I mean like pretty much a lot of the time I don't really eat very much at all. And that's I don't know the raw food restaurant is a lot of education and doing like raw food courses and things like that. >> Yeah, I do a lot of fasting >> and so I'm very connected with like and different forms of fasting like you know um liquids as opposed to no food. That's awesome. >> Um there's water fasting even you know dry fasting right time. I um it puts me in greater contact with, you know, as kind of someone who's always been very obsessed with um veganism and um my vegan way of life, I find that I still can become kind of disconnected to the actual conversation between food and the body. And the more I look at raw restaurants, it feels like that connection is reestablished through the menu. you know, there's a lot of things that um will fall out of my diet as a vegan that raw restaurants have very prevalent because they lean on them. You know, um in the United States, for example, beets and things like that make a huge it's very prevalent in Bali. Um but like in the United States, it's very rare for a lot of vegans to have like this beat forward diet. And here, um and especially raw foods that I go to lean on those things a lot. And um it reminds me of holes to fill. So I feel like um the raw experience can open anybody up, you know, to um a new way of viewing food or holes that have been creeping their way into one's diet in life, >> you know, and things like that. [Music] When you were creating the menu that you have, did you consider your personal relationship with the body like you said like how things make you feel or was it about what you wanted to provide the community that came and ate here? >> Uh it's a lot of things. I think that like it's not it's also still evolving. Uh we're about to launch like the the next phase uh in a sense like the website's going live. the new uh the new menu will be uh like on the tables maybe in the next couple of weeks. Um and uh yeah, I would say just to retrace a little bit rather than pushing that was more that like uh um we're trying to provide raw food that anybody can eat, you know, like the tacos are a bit like any other taco. Like you wouldn't even if you give it to someone in the street, they maybe not even realize that this is completely raw vegan. It's not seen in an oven, you know. It's everything's at 45° and we managed to to shape the taco shells and make them very crispy. Is only made from pure corn. Uh, and this is like kind of um the idea in a way maybe on a bigger scale is to to make a more simplified very healthy raw vegan like fast food that is very like able to pop up in festivals or around and maybe even franchise. >> Um, but you know we're slowly just there's also like other areas of things. I mean there's so much detail that you can go into. I mean, we make everything from scratch. Like even all of our herbs and and spices, we um get organically and dry ourselves. Um so the attention to detail, like I opened this place like a a year before opening, like we were here already training and uh building and uh and producing products and stuff like that. Um, and then yeah, I try to kind of get a bit of a I'm a very uh foodie person. So, I've been eating and cooking food since I was I my first job was a chef when I was 15 in London. Uh, and talking about raw raw other raw foods. The on the dish there was a steak tata. >> Mhm. >> It's like raw steak with a egg crack on top. I was shocked. >> Yeah. But then I was, you know, I was when I was 15, I was eating meat for a little bit. I was vegetarian early, but like that during that period, I was eating like fillet stick at lunch and stuff. >> So I've experienced like all diets and uh I've I've been vegetarian maybe uh I was vegetarian for about 10 years, then I became vegan about six years ago and raw vegan about five years. >> Okay. >> So it was pretty quick transition. How long has this um the temple been open? >> Uh we've been open now just over a year. >> Okay. >> At this location. Yeah. >> So new. Were you at another location before? >> Uh well like I said this like we we had like uh um training happening and uh opening of a factory. So like we'd also do like a products. So there's a there's a a factory on the other side of town. >> Mhm. >> Um we're about to launch like all these products into the shops around the island. there just here. >> Okay. What made you choose Ubud? >> Ubud uh I landed in Ubud. Uh um actually um me and my family have had a a little boy and uh he was uh he was born in in Bali. So like uh um yeah, is a is a nice family place. >> Home. Yeah, it is. Ubud's a great family town. I think tons of children running around. I'm kind of obsessed with the notion because I don't understand it and I don't from what I understand of restaurants, it feels nearly impossible for me to conceptualize running a raw kitchen and maintaining you know the preservation of food and things like that. Like it feels like you would have to be so disciplined with your ordering and techniques because things can't be kept right when they're raw. they're fresh and so did you find it difficult to navigate that terrain because raw is a requirement of things being so fresh and most kitchens keep things in you know deep freeze like they do certain things to be able to keep their things >> did you find that to be a difficult hurdle or was it natural for you? >> Yeah. No, it's definitely a challenge. Like like that's why I feel we needed so long before actually opening. Like we were kind of trying to open for a year, you know. >> Uh and then we finally opened and we were kind of just like we just made a shortened menu to simplify it while we open. >> Uh but uh yeah, I think that like there's a lot of fermented foods with raw, which is like obviously when you ferment foods, they're a lot easier to keep. And that's also the basis of a lot of the the produce that we make is a lot of fermented foods, the preserved foods. >> Um, so this is like when I became raw, it was uh I I was like it happened very quickly. It was because of health, right? And like and then all of a sudden I was like, well, how do you live raw then? And then it was like very quickly I became kind of >> um having crackers and uh like fermented pickles and stuff like that. And if you've got that in your cupboard and you've got a few crackers, it's very easy to stay raw. Like in fact, it's kind of like quite convenient. You can even put it in your bag, you know, just a couple of jars of kimchi, a couple of crackers, and then like you're you're good, right? A bit of fruit. >> The bread situation always hangs vegans up that I talk to. They're like, I could see raw. I could see doing that. I've never met a vegan that doesn't love a salad. You know, there's like But then they get to the bread and they're like, I couldn't. I don't know how. When you looked at bread when you became raw, was that a hurdle or was it like you said you have the crackers? >> Yeah, the crackers are pretty epic. I mean like you can do different sort of styles and you can actually make some pretty good breads with using like uh different like emulsifying agents like uh um psyllium husk is used by a lot of people. I don't particularly like to use it because uh >> is it too puffy for you? >> It's more of a healing tool for me like you use that for detox. It's like when you're fasting, you you put it in your gut and it expands and it will pull stuff out when you when and you can uh pass like big anacondas, you know, like it grows into like a it's like pillar, you know. >> Um and so like because I'm on a constant healing sort of process and and fasting and stuff, I don't particularly like to put it in there in my body unless I need it. It will just create a little bit of blockages. And I think that's like, you know, understanding how the body works is the most important part. That process is a personal uh journey >> and like uh it's just once you understand what your body needs then you base your diet on that and it becomes kind of governed in a different way rather than governed about what your desires are to eat. You're more governed by like what your intuition is telling you that your body needs, >> you know, and and through like the more fasting you become more attuned with what is going on, right? And how when you every time you finish a fast and you start like introducing foods, you're learning about those things on a whole different level. Every time you introduce that thing, it's like, wow, you're feeling really the full effect of what that thing is doing. >> And then having those tool sets, you can apply them to different things. >> Absolutely. Knowledge basis unknown before. Um, so did you curate did you develop your menu out of that basis like out of a health basis that you were looking at for yourself or did you look at what you thought you wanted to provide your potential customer or was it a collaboration? >> No, no, yeah. It's solely just based on what we need like what I was needing in my process and what everyone around me is also doing that process. It's a bit of a kind of when you cleanse, you end up helping others cleanse and then it becomes like a baton, you know, and uh we provide like detox kits and uh all of the different uh things that you might need during the cleansing process cuz it is a bit like that. It's like uh we were supposed to be running a restaurant, but we're kind of telling people to stop eating, right? So, so we're we're having to make it into a more of a a community based thing uh where there's multiple income sources, not just the food, because the learn the food alone would probably not be enough because we're all fasting, >> most of us. >> Um but it's a great I try also to just provide a space where people can then start to become the cooked vegans can start to introduce foods that um are filling. >> Yeah. Because it's like a salad is all right, but if you're if you're used to eating carbs, if you're used to eating cooked food, when you introduce like a salad, you're still not really full. >> You're looking for some sort of filler. And that's like kind of like that dry food and like understanding how to do that like it can be done, you know? So using nuts and stuff like this is that um like if you eat the tacos or the pizzas and stuff, you don't really need more food after that. It's quite filling. Yeah. >> Uh, and that was the shock for me, I think, when I realized that you could do all of these things raw. And not only that, it's like it just it kicked like an inspiration in me again for cooking. I'd been rotating the same old cooked food like for for so long, for decades, you know, and then it was like a whole new like cooking became or like preparing food became a whole new art form for me. It really is alchemy and uh you know understanding how to take one item like I' I've designed a papaya pepperoni here like from using the high-end Blixer machines dried uh papaya. >> Mhm. >> And it's it's it's exactly like pepperoni. Like it's it's >> Is it a similar process as like the smoked salmon flavor that they're getting from the papaya or is it different? >> Well, yeah. We would add some liquid smoke to it so that you can get a smoky flavor to it. >> Amazing. >> And that's just so simple. It's just like a little just adding a drip of this like liquid that you can make yourself also. >> Mhm. >> Um Yeah. I mean, the whole thing is for love and for fun really. >> So, you said you're revamping the menu >> and what um what helped you kind of tease out or renew the menu? I haven't seen the new one, so I don't know the differences, but what inspired the differences? Well, I think one of the biggest differences is that now we've got the the seven chakra juice uh detox program and like uh that is like a subscription thing where people can subscribe to like 3 days uh 7 days or 21 day juice fast. Uh there's also just a a few uh changes that maybe I wanted to it may not have even been the the the item removing but just being like uh improved stuff that I'd been wanting to to implement when we opened >> but with the busyiness of everything was kind of difficult. You kind of have to develop things as far as you can and then come back to it once I've got a bit more time. So once now the website's finished all this sort of stuff uh I can now put more TLC back to the uh the mains sort of like creation. [Music] >> There's a lot more like you said. It's ironic because you have a Raw Temple restaurant and you're encouraging people to fast and do all these different things but there's still a community here. It seems like people have like um a lot of sense of environment and community just at this particular restaurant. It seemed like most people who were here it was completely filled >> and um it seemed like a lot of people knew each other you know there there was that sense of things. How did you have to encourage that? Was that organic? Did that come on its own? >> Yeah, I've been here 10 years now. So like uh I kind of know a lot of people and uh we've been putting on events now for a year. We do kan like every 3 days >> or three times a week basically. Uh there basically something happening every evening here like so it's slowly getting out there. We're a little bit out of town. We're a little bit hidden but that's kind of what we like. It's like out out of the bustle of town and it's mostly for the people who are kind of like here more longterm, but we also encourage other tourists to come and stuff, but it's just not really a tourist walking place, right? >> So, it's a little bit of like a a cloud out of town where we can just do our own thing. >> That location is interesting to me, too. And it is um >> I think it's specific. I think people who come to that kind of a niche um experience like the Raw Temple, they'd be willing to travel for it anyway. But I'm curious because you are from the UK. >> Um how do you think the scene here or any other country you visited as far as the raw vegan vibe scene, however you want to define that, is here as opposed to other countries. Well, I was a I was a director of a a brand called Equinox Kombucha in the UK. Like I founded it in 2012 or 11. And uh we used to do a lot of like trade events and stuff. And there was a company called Inspiral Lounge and Inspiral Cafe. And they they had a a product kale chips, raw kale chips. >> And uh funny they call it spiral because they really inspired me. I was doing like the kombucha product and stuff like that and then uh yeah I guess that that inspiration was lodged somewhere in the back of my brain and then when I became raw vegan it was like it got activated. It's just like, okay, I really was inspired by by uh those guys and this kind of um lounge aspect and being able to sit back with really nice music and and not just that, but like high quality like studio monitors everywhere and stuff that is >> uh just kind of >> uh yeah, the vibe we're going for really. >> Yeah. [Music] How do you think like do you travel a lot and when you do are you able to find raw vegan restaurants to eat at that you like or is it mainly just cooking for yourself because you don't? Yeah, when I travel, I usually just carry like a spiralizer in my pocket and I'll tend to make my own stuff, but uh but I also try to go to restaurants and stuff like that sometimes, but it's pretty difficult to find like uh uh safe food. Like really, we get to the point where there's like no sugar, there's no gluten, there's no carbs, there's no any of these things. It's like >> Yeah, it's pretty hard to find places that are going to suit that, you know. And it's also hard to to satisfy a large customer base if you don't have all those things. Right. >> Right. >> So, you know, in a way, we're taking a risk to be doing what we're doing and standing up against like uh what we're just standing up for what we believe in, >> which is the health of the body. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. We just don't know compromises. Like we just won't put anything that we know that is like going to cause problems for your body into your body. >> Yeah. Uh and uh yeah, it's super important. And it also goes for like the the cleanliness of the food, right? Like if you see over there, we have like a massive arro. It's like it does like 400 gallons per per day. That is for all the taps in the building. So you can drink from the taps like even in the bathroom. >> Nice. >> Which is probably the only place. >> Yeah. I've never heard of ever heard of it in my life here. So, but it's just it just makes things easier. Like we also have other sterilizing ways for getting rid of pesticides and stuff because like we mostly organic like nearly all the stuff is organic, but every now and again there'll be some stuff that is just not not possible to get. Also in Bali there's a bit of a um change in in seasons with what what's available. It'll only take one big storm and all of a sudden there's no you can't access one item. It's just gone all of a sudden. I've heard this. >> Yeah. >> So, at that point, we'll try to use like non-pesticide stuff, but it might not it might be GMO or something like that. I don't know. >> We do the best we can really like. But we do take it to to some other level that other restaurants would never even conceive of >> because it's an endeavor, you know, and it's already difficult to make a restaurant a successful business and then to insist that it be like this um intensely focused on health and nutrition. You know, it feels like a lot of people just be like, "No." I'm curious with the new um juice and the fasting um programs that you'll offer, do will you also do like counseling? Will you walk people through the educational aspect or will that just kind of be inherent? >> Yeah, I mean that is kind of like what's already been happening organically and like people are helping each other to get through these processes. I think when I did my main cleanse I was like I only really got through it because I had a couple of people that been through it >> and they're local. But we also have like inhouse uh sort of uh on call like advisor for the for the juice detox program. But it's a tricky thing because it's like actually like what we're saying is that we'll provide the access to it. It's nothing to do with us because it's like how far do you go with people and a lot of people they want like really kind of like life coaching or something. That's not really our field but uh we're providing like the raw temple academy which will have different areas will be like the raw food basic raw food courses but then also like the more in-depth detox courses where you can actually come and stay with a bunch of people >> and uh be in good hands while you go through these processes and stuff like that. [Music] So with the raw food academy um that is interesting. Every time I look at someone developing a cooking academy, you know, it's there's a lot of different angles to come at it from. You can come at it from this dish. We're going to make this dish and as we make it, we're going to educate you on the different components and why and what it does. Or you can just start off with educating like these are the things these are the things that you can get from raw food items, you know, that don't need to be processed or cooked. These are the nutrients the body needs. You can kind of come at it from different angles to educate people. With your academy coming up, is it um what route have you chosen to like kind of base it off? >> Well, there's going to be multiple different courses. I think like uh we want to do uh a sort of basic course where you learn some of the actual dishes that we have like here at the Royal Temple. Like a lot of people asking us all the time like, "Oh, can we learn how to do this?" >> Right. >> And then if we were to arrange like a one-on-one, it's maybe too costly, you know? >> Uhhuh. >> Um so we're just going to provide this. But then also we're doing digital courses. So that will be more intensive >> and we'll be many different chefs teaching many different types of dishes and like also like uh specifically healing foods or detox foods uh as well as uh just creative uh and >> good ad adaptations of different uh countries foods you know like we try to cover like an international menu. Um, I mean the difference between Thai food and Indian food is very vast and to be able to have all the colors on the menu is is important for me. Like as somebody that's traveled deeply and loves food, >> it's important to to tip your hat to like some of the best foods in the world. >> Absolutely. >> You know what I mean? >> Yeah. >> And even do our own, you know, adaptations. The one of the biggest studies is or the things that we're really trying to activate now is that it's interactive. So you can create your own food at the at the the salad bar there. So obviously you can create your own salad, but we want to see you can make your own pizza and wraps as well. >> Chefs will be kind of coming out in the front as we kind of pick up. >> But it's a it is a balance between, you know, clientele and like what you can put out like you said like keeping it raw like you know it needs to be fresh. >> If we keep putting food out fresh and there's not enough people, it's like you know it's a balance, right? and things like cheeses and stuff like that. Yogurts to activate those things. Uh takes, you know, constant bustle >> and that's a that's a fine balance that we're kind of tuning at the moment. Hopefully with the live event schedule on the the the website. I should leave some gaps in between my talking, but >> No, you're good. This is great information. I'm curious. Um what is your favorite thing to >> eat from your menu? And do you do you still cook back there? Are you cooking as well or you have you given that to somebody else? What's your favorite thing to cook and what's your favorite thing to eat? >> Uh yeah, as the uh as the founder owner, I'm not actually allowed to work in the kitchen. I'm allowed to teach, but uh on my trans situation. >> I got you. Okay. >> So, at your home, what's your favorite thing to cook from the restaurant? >> Uh uh yeah. So, I don't know. I rotate the menu. I've eaten all of it. It's all been my favorite, I think, at the moment. I know, but also I like I I can change whatever. And that's what I also want other people to do. It's like to to if they have an idea like like for example, >> I like the burger, but I don't really like raw bread so much. It's quite like too much nuts for for my diet. >> Yeah. So, I'll wrap it in sushi paper and then like I have like a sushi burger, which maybe is not it's going to be on the menu now because it's really good with like uh yeah, any of these ideas will adapt to like if people ask for special things. >> What are your best sellers? I'll bet you it's the tacos. What is it usually? >> Yeah, tacos, the burger. Okay. The pizzas, stuff like that. I don't know. They also they were available longer. >> So they they we started with just those sort of three main things. So >> yeah, >> I think now there's a deeper menu, but [Music] as it grew, it became too big for me. So there was now I've got a team of people as we're going to to be able to to step up to the next level. How big is your staff at any given shift? >> During one shift, the morning shift, I'm not sure actually. Like I don't know, maybe 10. >> Okay. >> There's 10 of us in the >> It's a lot team here, but there's a bigger team. We have a factory and a farm as well. So >> a farm. Oh, right. >> For all the food. >> Yeah. And the academy like that will be the first courses will be happening on our little farm. Uh and then eventually maybe one day it's all in one big giant place, you know, like where at the moment we've kind of got lots of little things dotted around town. >> Yeah. >> And we're probably going to put up a restaurant maybe in in the center once we're able to really pull off what we're trying to achieve. >> But it is uh you do have I am having to come at it from multiple angles because uh there's just at this point I believe raw food is really the future. I don't believe that anybody is going to if you're not eating raw foods, you're getting left behind. It's kind of like it makes you function on a on a different like level. And I think >> as AI develops and all these things, people's consciousness are just everybody's getting more smart and more in touch with what's right, >> right? >> And so it's just inevitable, you know, like like for example, everyone's going on this like raw meat mission at the moment. >> Can you imagine like what that's actually going to do in the next 10 years? Like what? So it will speak for itself. Like if there's a huge people amounts of people just eating raw meats, they're just going to they're all going to get the data will speak for itself. >> Yeah, >> they will get it eventually. You know what I mean? >> One way or another. Yeah, I think a prebel days I think kind of answered that. But um I'm curious with the interior development, was this all you? Did you work in combination with a creative team to come up with your palette? You've got a heavy purple influence. Was that your love? You're in a purple shirt. I'm wondering if you love purple and also um who helped you decorate or if it was just kind of a you thing. >> Yeah, I'm an artist. I'm I'm obsessed with with color and stuff like that and brands and stuff. I've always had like purple, green as my kind of brand colors. Uh, my mom loves purple, too. I don't know, maybe she had some influence on that. Um, >> nice. >> But I'm pretty sure, yeah, it's been there since I was a kid. And also, uh, Black and White is like kind of nonuality and stuff. Um, >> so, uh, yeah, but I've had a lot of creative help like, uh, Heidi Green was here with me at the beginning. She's like a good friend of mine and she has helped me a lot uh mostly with graphics and stuff like that getting it into a graphics form into a digital format. [Music] >> Has your mom ever eaten here? >> Yeah, she's been a few times. >> Nice. What does she think? >> Yeah, she's blown away, I think. Yeah. >> Yeah. I think that but like you were saying to me I think before we started she tries to explain it to people in her world >> and they're like salad what is raw is what it's like it's not really >> something you can open a whole like universe about. I know. I There is. Yeah, because it's a great endless it is. I think that just starting with For me, >> there's a hook. >> There's always a hook to get someone to just think on it themselves because nobody has the attention and energy to educate everyone they walk into. So, just to be able to say, you know, add up all the things you eat in a day that don't touch a microwave or a stove. >> You have an apple that's raw. you know, you can just start adding up things that you put in your mouth and um start exploring that. And I think it gets people thinking more because at first blush, everyone's like, "Nah, that that's nothing. That means you're eating, you know, something you pull from the earth or pick from a tree and they're very daunted." But if you can slowly start, you like some nuts, those are usually raw, you know. >> Well, this is why I like the concept of doing like a kind of an act raw vegan like Subway type approach where it's like fast food. It's available everywhere and it's it's like but it's actually healthy. >> Mhm. >> You know, and then >> you'll have people eating it and not even realizing. They'll just be like, "Oh, that." And then afterwards they'll find out. They'll be like, "Oh, that's what that means." You know, >> the story of the crackers and the kimchi. See, that is a hook for me. I won't ever forget that. You're like, it's super easy to just travel with your food. You know, you've got some crackers, you've got some kimchi. Both keep for many days. You know, that kind of a concept. I'm thinking about people who are like, I could never go raw. I'm like a mom of three kids. It's like it keeps actually there's like ways that you can that are very very easy. That kind of a concept bridges a lot of huge rivers for people, you know. >> Yeah. I mean, you want to add some freshness in there, too. It can't just be crackers and pickles and cheese, but it but it does really help. And so, if you add with your salad to fill it up because a lot of people, they'll try to eat healthy. They'll eat a salad and then they're sat there going like I'm going to go and get some food, you know, like real food, they say, you know, but if they just had a cracker and some cheese with it as well, like some raw cheese, uh made from nuts or whatever, um you know, and and then educating about all those things, like actually cashew, a lot of raw raw cheeses made from cashew is not really the greatest thing to be eating. So >> then to collect and Yeah. So there's levels every time you're pulling off these layers of education, there's more to learn and more to to discover and like the sensitivity of your body is really the key as you starting to really understand through >> experimenting with it, you know, then it's not I'm doing this thing because I'm read it here or I heard it from this doctor or that one, you know, it's like I don't know, you know. Yeah, it's good to get a concept from people, but if you know that a lot of people talk about protocol and all this sort of stuff, like I think like >> we should just banish that word. >> I think we should all just discover who we are, what we and what what our body is saying, you know, >> totally individual, you know, we all are. I agree with you. the greatest relationships I have with food and the more um of a developed and deep passionate love affair I develop with my food and my my body and everything is the interpersonal relationship. >> You know that how I respond when I have um some tomato and fresh herbs like basil mixed with like an avocado. I have an incredible response to it. you know, it's it's um my parents I'm third generation from Southern California. Those things have been growing on that land for a hundred years. That may or may not play into it, but at the end of the day, those things make me feel unbelievable, you know? And so, having developed that personal relationship, >> you could come out tomorrow and say tomatoes are really bad and I would just be like not for me, >> you know, because I've got proof. >> Yeah. But I'd say like so for example you talk about let's use this subject that you're bringing up right avocados they're quite heavy in fats right even though it's a very good fat it's a natural fat that we want right >> but if you like say you start a process of fasting and then like uh your body's starting to detox and and it's in a process of exiting all of these toxins out of us and you eat an avocado all of a sudden it it might have a different effect on you that you that you need to like suddenly to understand what's going on there. So you're not just suddenly, oh my god, avocados are bad now or whatever. It's just about food, you know, how it actually affect you >> and just being conscious of that effect. Right. >> That's interesting. I want to I want to wrap on that question. You just said >> let's hear >> when is food relevant? >> That's a really interesting question. How would you answer that? When is food relevant for you? >> Yeah, I mean it's like it's the you is like it's your body, right? Like uh so that's different every day, right? Like you know it's uh eating when when you actually need to eat. >> But knowing when that voice has been clarified is difficult as well because a lot of people need to detox before they get to a place where they know. >> Yeah, exactly. I I think that's a process. I think everybody needs to be doing you know there's a reason that every religious um you know group in the world has all that fasting at its core. >> You know it's really at its core and I think and if we go another level it's because of parasites. >> You think about Muslims they say about talking about like not eating pork like why? It's like we just found those like the those energy coils underneath the pyramids, right? >> Why? >> Right. >> You know, like we just need to get to the the why and and and then we'll we'll remember kind of who we are, what we are, and what we're going to do here. >> Yeah. >> What we're here for. >> In your opinion, is raw food a fast track to getting people in touch with >> their honest dialogue with food? I think everybody is like a divine creation and it's it's like we're actually like like a Tesla coil and that we've got this kind of energetic like to torodial energy field that is infinite and that we need to tune in with that like and the foods that we've been eating uh as a masses were most likely designed to disconnect us from from our true source and from what we our capability and we just need to come back to that and the more that we live in touch with our our health like the closer we're going to become like back to our source. >> Yeah. this remembrance of who we really are and what we're capable of. Like we're we're we're divine psychic beings. Like we need to we need to step it up. You know, like at the moment we're relying on technology and stuff, but really this technology is only doing what we are capable of doing naturally, >> right? >> You said you think everyone's getting smarter. Yes. >> Under the forest. >> If we can tune into what we already have, like we will be moving into better places, you I agree absolutely and I think that food is one of the greatest um medicines if you let it be you know it's also one of the greatest poisons >> uh because it's literally our fuel. >> Yeah. And if uh I don't know like it's a bit like the zoo, right? If you go to the zoo and you see some of these animals, they're like they're overfeeding them and they're giving them so that they're kind of like in a dopey state, you know? Like you'll see these tigers and they're just kind of like doped out. >> Yeah. That's that's humanity. We're just doped out like on rice and and potato. >> Yeah. >> And like very slow and easy to take advantage of >> without the right food. So, I've covered everything that I wanted to know. When you were thinking about this interview, did you hope that I would ask you something that I haven't asked you? Is there anything you want to share as we finalize talking? >> No, I I I feel that it's just such a vast subject, so it's it's hard one because we could talk for for days, right? >> I could I love it. Yeah. >> Yeah. But no, I feel it's okay. Yeah. >> Awesome. Thanks for talking with me. I really appreciate it. This is a really cool space. I love everything that you've done with it. I'm a fan of purple, so maybe I'm biased like your mom, but um it's cool. I loved hanging out here. It was really fun. >> Thanks for coming. >> Thank you so much. >> Thanks for listening to Borderless. I hope you enjoyed this conversation. If you like this episode, please subscribe so that you can continue to hear fascinating conversations as I continue to wander the globe. You can follow us on Instagram at borderless-podcast or head over to our website borderless-podcast.com for more info and updates. This episode was produced by Patricia Kathleen Productions. And a special thank you to the team that makes it all happen, Charie Turn, Emma Baker, and Finn Wild. Wherever you are in the world, I hope our conversation made you feel a little more seen and connected. Until next time, take good care. [Music]