# Alchemy Restaurant Academy Ubud

Published: 2025-08-19

When we started, like I said, it was a small tiny garage. We had only a juice bar and a couple of refrigerators where we sold raw chocolate and some snacks. And uh so we threw a big opening party and we made some food and some ordurves and the next day people came back and they were wanting to buy food and we didn't have any food. we had only juices and and chocolate. So, ever since from the very beginning, people wanted food and um we were making lunches for ourselves. So, we would make big salads for us to eat and people would be like, "Oh, can I get that? Where can I have that?" >> Hi, I'm Patricia Kathleen. I travel the world with a mic in hand and questions to ask. And this is where those conversations live. My guests and I get into everything. Work, identity, creativity, purpose, the big stuff, the messy stuff, and the stuff that actually matters. From alleyway chats to studio sitdowns, I bring you with me as I talk to chefs, scientists, artists, activists, whoever around me has a story worth hearing. Wherever you're listening from, welcome. I'm glad you're here. Now, let's get into it. excited today to be sitting down with Shanti Allen. She is the co-founder of Alchemy Restaurant and the founder of Alchemy Academy. She's also the author of The Raw Alchemist. Welcome, Shanti. >> Thank you so much, Patricia. >> Thank you so much for having us. So when was the academy founded and why did it what brought it into inception? Why was it founded? >> Well, it was founded in 2017. That was uh when the alchemy restaurant was already up and running and um a lot of people were asking for classes to learn how to make the food that we serve on the menu. Mhm. And I had started to do some classes in different various locations, but it was a, you know, matter of having to bring all the blenders, all of the equipment, and uh, you know, >> it wasn't the ideal setup anywhere. So, I thought we need a place where people can learn how to cook, have all the equipment they need, and like everybody has their own student station. We have a very nice like demo kitchen so that um everything is ready to get creative and have fun. Yeah. So when you talk about designing a culinary academy, I always think about it from different lenses. Like you could approach it with dishes. I'm going to teach you how to make these staples. You could approach it with ingredients educating, you know, exactly what chia does when it's, you know, added to some hot water. You could also approach it from um like a traditional culinary like I will teach you these methods standpoint. When you first kind of conceived of it, did you know how you were going to approach the academy foundation or basis? Was it based on classes, cuisines? How did you do all of that? >> Well, it was based on the food that is at Alchemy. So basically teaching people how to make um the menu items and um so one thing is to have like inspirational courses like for the day which um we have done you know just come for a day and do a workshop but um what we've specialized in is um >> certification courses where people can get certified as a raw food chef. So, um, Alchemy is a raw started as a raw food restaurant. Um, and now we've added some cooked food as well, but everything is plant-based. So, >> and it has its roots in being raw. >> Exactly. That's how that's how it all began. When we started, it was all of the menu was raw. Mhm. It's interesting because when you look at the menu, and I feel like I've tasted about 90% of it so far, but a lot of the um the dressings and the things like that, you can really sense that it comes from a raw standpoint, you know, like there's a lot of the core um ingredients are kept raw. And I think that that like really shines through even some of the cooked items, you know, because it takes on that >> philosophy or ethos. The menu has a vibe, right? And it's and it it reads from that kind of raw basis and foundation of a vibe. I'm curious with the academy as it stands right now. >> Do you do day classes? You do certifications you just mentioned. Do you do weekend warrior trips? Like when tourists come to town? I'm assuming a lot of your people, a lot of your patrons are tourists. Do you do um full service events? Do they stay on premises? Like what kind of different packages do you offer? Well, our uh courses are 12 days >> and they include um excursions. We go visit uh we go behind the scenes of Alchemy Restaurant. We see how it looks in the kitchen. Um we go to visit um Holy Spring. >> Um and we do explore other restaurants as well in Ubud. And then we do workshops and food foraging and all kinds of uh interesting things to do when you're here in Ubud. >> Um we have some um weekend courses and um also so for the certification courses we have raw level one, raw level two and then we have cooked level one and cooked level two >> and they're all 12 days. >> Yeah. So raw food gets a lot of from what my limited understanding is a lot of the philosophy that I hold near and dear to myself which is distance from where something is grown as you know as to when it's cooking and there are so many different um aspects to Bali. I didn't know the black lava fields could grow tomatoes you know and they do >> and all of those things. So, how much of your education and and how much can you pack into teaching your students about like locally sustainable like kind of drawing from things that you have at your disposal and how much of it is just teaching them the dishes that you source here on Bali? >> I think it's intertwined. We do have a lot of local um teachers, guest teachers who are passionate about you know what they are doing like uh we have Mday who comes here and teaches about food foraging. We have um people who are very passionate about growing organic and local and um so we have very interesting people coming to talk about what they're doing and uh so yeah it's definitely intertwined with teaching the dishes and what we do at Alchemy. >> When you talk about food foraging I am thinking anything grown in the wild naturally. >> Yeah. >> And hunting that out. Is that correct? >> Yeah. And then and then making something interesting with it. So >> yeah, something fun. >> So how many dishes do you try to get everyone's head wrapped around within the course? Um, do you set out with an amount of dishes or >> um Well, we have if I were to estimate maybe [Music] we have that's hard to say, but let me just explain how how the uh day is set up. So uh we uh we start with yoga or breath work and that's like an optional thing to join and then we have um breakfast and then we have a um demonstration for uh so we just like in the demo kitchen show how to make something and then after that we do hands-on cooking. So everybody is preparing their own uh recipes and then it comes together as a lunch that we all enjoy together. >> And then after that we have like another guest speaker or talk or something um like another demo and then we do more hands-on cooking. So, there's a lot of hands-on >> um and we try to pack in as much um recipes as we can, but of course it depends uh >> um how uh how long the flow of the day. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I think it's interesting that you start with breath work. Um, I know that, you know, even non-vegan, non- raw chefs really believe in kind of intention. This notion that, you know, food is is live alive and as are we, you know, and um I'm curious, did you always start your classes with doing breath work? And is it an effort to align the chef with like themselves or with the community at Alchemy Academy? Like what is the intention of the breath work in the morning? Um it's a very nice um way to bring the group together >> and uh I find that a lot of people haven't tried breath work before and it's a quite it's quite a lifealtering experience when when you I mean coming to Ubud itself is like um has a big impact on people. This is a powerful place and it has a very powerful energy >> and uh so it's um I think it's something that can be very relaxing and um yeah like I said like lifech changing experience. >> Yeah, it is. I don't I've never met anyone who's visited or even people who live here. Um you know the Balinesian like the understanding of kind of the sacredness of the culture of Bali is so unique you know the whole world over and Ubud even >> um for me more so in all of Bali as well. I think it's been accepted as kind of that awakening spiritual you know mecca you know for a lot of people. So, um, and because of that, Alchemy gets spoken about a great deal. You never hear about Ubud without hearing about Alchemy Cafe, the Academy, things like that. >> When was Alchemy Restaurant founded? >> 2012. >> 2012. So, >> uh, 2011. >> Okay. Seven years before the academy. >> Yeah. >> So, it was you and how many other founders, >> I think. Uh, let me think. Um, so yeah, it was five people together. Yeah, >> a collective. Did you all know each other from Ubud before or how did you come together? >> Some of us uh knew each other from before and some of us just came together. Okay. >> For the project. Did you did you know that you wanted this space when you did when you found the space? Because the space that alchemy is in for me, you know, getting into whether or not you subscribe to funue or anything. It's this very special place right in Ubud itself. It's very serene and tropical yet it's very local and well placed. Did you already have the space picked out or did you form the restaurant and then go looking? >> We went looking. So um we had a couple of different options >> and u it uh turned out to be this one. >> It was very small when we started. It was just a little garage. Oh, okay. It wasn't because it's I was wondering if you started off with that space. So, it was tiny. >> It was so so small. It was so tiny. >> And um >> I can't picture it small. >> It's just so expansive. There's, you know, and >> you've designed it so you know, but there's like nooks and crannies everywhere. Like every time I go in there, I think, was that bench always there? You know, there's just so many different ways for people to sit >> and eat. You know, you have the very wide benches, the Bologanese meditation benches that are more like beds. You have tables down low, regular height tables. It's fascinating. Um, how did you first think about the menu with your five partners? Did all five of you try to contribute to the menu or was that mainly just you and was the beginning menu small or was it expansive? >> Oh, yeah. Okay. So, uh, no, the menu has always been my department. So I love we have an amazing team at Alchemy and everybody specializes in their own particular department. >> Yeah. >> And it's like that's what's been working so well. It's because um everybody loves to do their part which is different from all of us. So it comes together very nicely and beautifully like that. Mhm. Um, when we started, like I said, it was a small, tiny garage. We had only a juice bar and a couple of refrigerators where we sold raw chocolate and some snacks. And uh, so we threw a big opening party and we made some food and some order. And the next day people came back and they were wanting to buy food and we didn't have any food. We had only juices and and chocolate. So ever since from the very beginning people wanted food and um we were making lunches for ourselves. So we would make big salads for us to eat and people would be like, "Oh, can I get that? Where can I have that?" And then um so at one point my partner Jane had um um said that you know it was available for us to expand. We could get the next door and we could just like knock down the wall and expand. And then >> that's how we decided to make a restaurant of it where we could have like a salad bar and uh have se >> which is one of my favorites. And I know it sounds dafted, you know, or shortsighted, but the salad bar, um, I get the cards, you know, you punch them because I eat them so many times. The salad bar is ingenious because it has, it's >> a bed of rice or lettuce, whatever base you want, but it has like the best bits and bobs that you could possibly add. It's like choosing five manes to put on your salad. For me, you know, the stew, tempe, this type of thing. Yeah. Um, every compartment is so thoughtfully done. You know, the um, mashed tofu, you know, that that kind of a thing is it has its own specific flavor. So, it feels like you're getting four tasters in one. I'm I'm a believer. I'm a bit of a um, not a vigilante. I'm a evangelist for the salad bar. I want to ask you about the case because this is funny. When I looked at Alchemy for at first sight, I thought perhaps because a lot of vegan restaurants that you go to all over the world, but also in Ubud, the dessert cases are outsourced. It comes from a vegan bakery, but it sounds like your beginning was in raw cocoa chocolates. >> So, are all of the desserts made in Alchemy? >> Yes. Not only are all desserts made in Alchemy, but everything is made from scratch at Alchemy. So we don't uh buy the things that are made because we want to make sure that all the ingredients are clean and so uh we make pretty much everything from scratch. >> Okay. >> Um and yeah, we have a little chocolate factory you could say going on. >> It's different tasting too because someone one of my children was saying the chocolate um pudding or custard is the same as the chocolate pie. And I was like, "No, they taste totally different." You know, I've tasted all of them. And you have like traditional little chocolates and then you branch out in desserts. Are you still always adding to that menu or has it kind of has the dessert case kind of stayed the same? >> We are adding. Yeah, we're we're adding and evolving. Um and um >> it's it's hard to take things away, but sometimes we have to, you know, uh be able to take things out. But uh yeah, >> so when you look at the main menu and um you're open breakfast, lunch, and dinner, which is daunting for a lot of restaurants, you know, because that's a lot of different moving parts, >> right? >> Um how often, like when you look at the main menu, which is huge, >> which pieces do you pull away from or add to? Does is that a marketing decision or is it more of a collective decision? Is it about what produce is available? How do you decide what stays on the menu? >> Um, well, I think um it depends, but what stays on the menu, we we look at what is popular, >> uh what what people want. We we get a lot of feedback. Um and we look at numbers and things like that. Mhm. >> Um what goes on the menu has always sort of been like what I'm inspired to create. >> Yeah. >> So it's usually what some I I'm always had the approach of like what would I want to eat >> and that is how it's been done from the very beginning. It's kind of similar at the academy, too. Like, how would I want it if I was taking a course? >> Um, so that's that's kind of the approach that I've taken on both the menu and the academy. >> Yeah. >> Um, plus getting feedback from >> Yeah. how is it met by other people? >> What would you say the top few um most popular items are on the menu? just off the top of your head, and it doesn't have to be market accurate, just like what do you think is the most popular right now at Alchemy? >> Well, definitely our alligator bar. >> Mhm. >> Um, also our um salad bar >> is something that has it's all it's always been connected. It's always been a signature of alchemy is our our salad bar. Mhm. >> Um but definitely our soft serve ice cream. >> Um I uh you know, normally when you get soft serve ice cream that's plant-based, it's uh very >> full of different chemicals and things. Yeah. Because it's so hard to get the texture right. >> Um >> how did you do that? How did you come into it? >> It was kind of scary. I was like, "Okay, we have we bought this big machine and it's like, you know, very expensive." And um >> I didn't really know how I was going to >> but I just I spent two months trying and trying and retrying and like making the recipe, tweaking the recipe and um then >> with a massive machine and I'm sure it wasn't made in Bali, right? It was shipped over here. The commitment is also like importing this thing. Two months of hanging out with a machine and then trying to curate your recipe on top of it. It's a whole new world. When did you start making the soft serve ice cream? Do you remember? >> Um yeah, it was about 3 years ago. >> It is special. And I'll tell you, most um soft serve vegan ice cream, like you said, it's just too chemical. I can't, you know, but I always try it because I'm always hoping. It's just something that hasn't been um classically done and it's done so well. >> Do you have um a community of there's you know a handful maybe 20 vegan restaurants. There's only a couple that really strive towards the raw in Ubud. Is it a tight community? Do you support each other? Do you know of one another? Do you eat at plant beastro? You know what I'm saying? Is it or is it kind of like you do your thing and they do theirs? >> We have uh we know each other. Yeah. There it's a community. Um and we do, you know, I go to Suri, I go to Zest, I go to Plant Beastro and uh it's one of the perks of living here, >> right? Uh so definitely um also Suri came to our restaurant in Japan when we opened Alchemy in Japan. >> Okay. >> Um and so >> how many locations does Alchemy have right now? Because there's Uluatu and Ubud. Is there another one in >> There is uh two. So yeah, there's one in Ubud, one in Uluatu, and then we have one in Tokyo. >> So >> I did not know that. That's amazing. >> Yeah. >> And I just spoke with Suri two days ago. >> Okay. >> I I filmed her doing some of her cooking things and her mother's in town and she was doing a Japanese kind of inspired thing at ScorI healing. >> Um but that's amazing. Tokyo. Who? >> Yeah. >> Who's running that? Are you going to start doing a school over there as well? No, I went to open it together with my team and then it's run by um a wonderful team over there. Uh >> it's a very different vibe from Ubud, right? Tokyo. >> It's a different place. Totally. But I wonder if the reception to the food is kind of the same, you know, people really reaching towards health and sustainability and kindness, you know, um to the environment, to the body, to everything. >> True. >> It's interesting. >> When did Tokyo get launched? >> It was, let me think, it was in 2023. >> Yeah. >> Reset. Mhm. >> New baby. >> Yeah, >> that's fun. That's so exciting. Do you think you'll go back and check up on it ever or lit up be? >> Yeah, we we do send our team over there >> regularly like once in a while. >> Um and then we have another restaurant coming up next is going to be here in Bali again. It's going to be another restaurant in Changangu. >> Oh, okay. Yep. You missed Changangu. It's right there. All the surfers, right? >> Absolutely. Is it Is it going to be called Alchemy or will another name? >> It's going to be Alchemy. >> Alchemy. Yeah. >> Yeah. I feel like that will do very well. So, with the cooking uh school happening right now, do you have does it run year round or do you have specific months where you offer the the training course and then you take time off? >> Yeah, it runs year round. >> Wow. >> Yeah, >> it's amazing. It's a lot. How many staff do you have working with you here? >> Um at the academy. >> Uhhuh. Um I have uh two amazing teachers who are um one is from the UK. Uh her name is Lauren. She's the founder of Plant Academy in London. >> Okay. >> And uh she's one of my teachers here. And then I have Karolina who um is from Spain. So, she has her own plant-based thing, but she's living full-time here helping you out as one of your two teachers. >> Exactly. >> And uh then I have um also breath work teacher, yoga teacher. Emily is my yoga teacher. She also teaches some classes here. Um >> and um >> how was the location for the school picked? Did you just find somewhere that could handle it? because this is a massive space, >> right? Um it was the head chef of alchemy. Her name is Reena. She's um a Bologanese woman and she owns the land here and she wanted to rent it out to somebody and I thought it would be perfect to have the academy here. So, it's like a little oasis, a little bit away from the >> hustle and bustle and um it's a very serene little place where people can really relax into the course. >> Mhm. Yeah, it is off the beaten track. It does feel differently because the cafe needs different things. It needs that kind of hustle and bustle. Yeah. >> Whereas education >> has a different need. >> Exactly. >> Amazing. the um the restaurant itself, Alchemy, it um >> for me it transforms throughout the day. So in the morning there's a like a very serious breakfast note to it. So I would call it a cafe and then in the afternoon it starts to reach into restaurant and then in the evening it looks like date night. It's so romantic with all of the lights, right? It does. It has and it has like this kind of um a little bit more um romantic and like elegant feel to it at night. >> It's amazing that that can transpire. There's no change over there's no change of decor, you know, and things of that nature when you were helping when all of you were designing it. Was did you keep that in mind? And how did you bring in notes of Balynian? But there's also you're Swedish. I get Swedish notes from inside alchemy. >> Was that a collaborative effort or how did that all come together? >> It's interesting that you noted that >> transformation throughout the day. Um because yeah, we we wanted to have more cozy vibes in the evening because alchemy is has was from the beginning quite um it's like very fresh and big portions and it's like um makes for a great lunch restaurant. But uh for the evening, you know, when people want a little bit more kind of relaxing and romantic environment, we um >> that was consciously decided to to sort of >> bring that in >> because it wasn't there from the beginning. And so um just to give a little bit of a different feel to it in the night >> it was achieved and it's I mean to to reverse that is so difficult. Like I said the notion of doing it for myself I just can't even imagine. It feels like I'd have to pick one like no we're a breakfast and lunch lunch joint or lunch and dinner but you can't go from one to the other. And it does it's beautiful just walking past and looking in you know you can feel it and then you go in and it's attracting those crowds. It's got, you know, more people having dinners and doing those things more seriously in the daytime. It's friends meeting up and doing things like that. >> Very consciously thought and achieved. Difficult to do. >> Where do the plans go from here? You did Tokyo, you're planning on chang. You're doing online courses. Are those up yet? And what inspired those? Um mainly it's what what's always been is that responding to what people are asking for and uh people who can't come to Bali or who want to take the course but they are not able to join in person. So they're asking for online courses. So um those are being filmed right now and we haven't released the date yet but they're coming very soon. >> It's exciting. It's the wave of I mean it's how a lot of people are doing it you know even when you can do in person to be able to revisit things like that with online courses >> is kind of a connection. >> Um how many groups how many people are usually in one class at a time? Do you have a maximum amount of students you can have? >> Yeah, I have 12 uh student stations. So we take 12 people as a max. >> That's exciting. How do you advertise? How do you market for it? Does it market for itself because of the restaurant? >> Um, we have a website um, alchemyacademy.orld >> and um, we also market through the restaurant people who come there and see they like the food and they want to learn. >> Yeah. Okay. Okay. Now, I know we we talked before and I know that you can't speak on behalf of alchemy yoga, but I don't want to let this conversation go without acknowledging that there's an alchemy yoga in Ubud across the street and there is a connection between that and alchemy cafe and there's an alchemy yoga in Uluatu and an alchemy >> restaurant there as well. >> Exactly. >> So, can you describe is it a is it a co-founder relationship where one person founded the yoga and then was also a co-founder of the restaurant? That's right. Exactly. So that's the connection and there's also a clinic. >> So um in Ubud and also coming in Changangu we have a clinic with alternative uh healing modalities. >> So there's some local healing modalities as well as some more international. >> Okay. you got a lot on your plate and so this is not to be presumptuous but when you start looking and thinking about your food or or or the academy or what direction you think you want to go to you said the entire menu as well as the academyy's curriculum is based out of your inspiration what what you would want to find what you would want to do so from that inspiration do you have any ideas as to what you might be adding in or doing anything adding taking away anything you're doing over the next couple of years. >> Yes. So, um I have to say that alchemy really changed my life when it comes to following my passion and doing what I love. I didn't used to do that. And when I came to Ubud and I started understanding about raw food and about plant-based food, it really changed my life. And all of a sudden, I found myself following my dharma or my path of inspiration. And so it meant like waking up in the morning and being excited about what I'm going to do and what I'm going to create. and then um one thing just leading to another and it's all just fun, one fun thing after another. So um I used to have jobs where it was like counting the hours until I could go home or like counting the days until I can >> go on vacation or have a weekend and time would move slowly. But here it's just, you know, time just flies and I'm loving it and I forget that my job is a job. It feels like just having fun. >> Um so yeah, the next things that are coming are um writing another cookbook. Mhm. >> Um and so we also have other uh plans of opening in locations around the world. >> And >> Sweden ever. >> Um in Sweden, we don't have any plans yet. Okay. >> Uh but I also would like to have the academy. I would like love to see the academy go uh pop up in other places as well. >> Absolutely. >> Um yeah. >> So it describes happiness. You know, you're loving everything that you're doing, >> right? >> You're calmly growing, right? >> You're looking at what's happening. You know, everything is kind of available and open. >> Yeah. >> Do you ever think that you yourself would move away from Bali or is this is this home for you? I have I I feel like because my my kids are now 16, so they are starting to, you know, get to the age where I don't have to be there every day for them. like they are uh soon gonna be grown up and I'm looking forward to seeing if I could move around the world, travel, go to other places, maybe if alchemy is opening somewhere else. I could go there like I did with Japan for example. >> So yeah, >> one country at a time. Yeah, >> there is a chocolate ball in Sweden that is naturally vegan and they have it in every coffee shop. What is it called? Do you know what I'm talking about? It's a round chocolate ball. Do you know what it is? What is it called? >> Delicato. >> Yes. And it's naturally vegan. And we discovered that by accident and it was the biggest mistake I'd ever made because I think my children ate a million of them. >> Oh, that's so funny. But um I think a lot of that when I think of cultures that have naturally vegan sweets and things like that, you know, no one had to go in and change it. >> It just naturally was. I think there there's a lot to be said for that in in nature and in what we do, you know. >> It's funny. I have a a chocolate ball in alchemy that's >> inspired by that one. >> I thought so. >> Yeah. If you've tried the chocolate bomb, >> my girls are every day this happens. Yeah, it's beautiful. Is it Is there a fig in there? Do you make it with a fig? >> Not that one. >> Dates. No, I know the chocolate bomb cuz Jack gets it every day. >> Yeah. >> No, there's another one called the Lucky Charm, which is made with dates. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> No, the chocolate bomb is round. >> Exactly. Yeah. And it has coconut on the outside. Yeah. Exactly. It's brilliant. >> Um, >> that's wonderful that it was inspired by that. >> Yeah, >> I'll have to tell her because she loved that when she was little as well. >> Yeah, >> that's wonderful. Um, is there anything I haven't asked you that you wish I had? >> Like, what should I know? Well, I can tell you that I am such a fan of deliberate creation, which is um something where you kind of create your life, you create your dream life. And I didn't realize, like I said, my life before and after alchemy is like night and day. And what happened was that uh when alchemy started, I just kept doing what I loved. And then when the when when it was met with so much appreciation and people kept coming to alchemy and kept loving it and we kept um expanding like that I had so much gratitude and it put me in a positive loop of uh elevated emotions which just made um >> um that I I think that's what changed my life and then I didn't realize that there was actually a formula to it which I learned later on when I started uh studying Abraham Hicks and uh Joe Dispensza and I learned about the law of attraction >> and then I uh realized oh that's why everything was working out so well because I was just in a constant state of appreciation and um gratitude and so it's like I didn't realize that but when you're in that state you become like a magnet >> of events that bring you more gratitude and appreciation. >> Yeah. >> And so, um, >> deliberate creation is a lot more forthright of a term for me than manifestation. And I think I'm a huge fan of it and I haven't heard it before, >> right? >> Um, because it's it's there's autonomy there. >> There's a consciousness and manifestation kind of feels like, you know, wear the suit that you want the job for. It kind of just feels out there, but deliberate creation is >> amazing. >> Yeah. It's um it's like you become the writer of your life. You're no longer just like um responding to random occurrences in your life. It's like you deliberately put yourself in a state of elevated emotion so that you're attracting um you're you're attracting events to match that vibration that you're putting out. >> Mh. >> So I I thought, you know, it was just I was just lucky, but then I realized there's an actual formula to it. >> Yeah. >> And I thought that was fascinating. So deliberate creation is something that I actually also teach on the courses here because a lot of people who come to the academy it's not just a cooking course. It's like a life-changing experience and they end up, you know, going a whole different getting a whole different perspective on life and many people start to really live their dream. And to um >> Was it founding alchemy that did that for you or was there a step before that that caused this deliberate creation that now just has you in this perpetual loop of self-fulfillment? I Yeah, that's a great question because when I first came to Bali, I came here with two little babies and um the father their father. We um we had twins that were 10 months old when we came here and we thought we would go here for five months and see if we liked it and see if we could find something some find a way to stay. And when we came here, we felt instantly at home and we thought we want to stay here. We want to find a way to u make a living here. And we started doing 20 minute um ceremonies every day and just talking about what we want to create and sort of like saying it out loud and supporting each other's uh visions. And I don't know if that was what started this spark or if it but or if it was after alchemy started. But I think saying what you want to create, saying it out loud and having somebody listen to it and support it is >> sort of magical. It's like you um yeah, the spark started there, I think. >> Yeah. Saying things out loud both mystifies and demystifies a concept, right? You're allowed to dream more, but it also puts it in >> into like this very understandable quotient, you know, in front of you. I love talking out loud about dreams because it >> it does both simultaneously, which I love. >> Exactly. So my final question for you is it's a cheeky one, but it's real. I'm being very, very serious. So when I have two scenarios, when you're invited to someone's house, do they always expect you to bring something you've made? You know, a chef is like a doctor at a dinner party. Someone's like, "Can you have a look at this mole?" You know, it's always at work. So that's number one. If you go somewhere and do you always have to show up with food? Is it a foregone conclusion? Or if you host a dinner party, is anyone ever brave enough to say, "I'll bring a dish." Or is it just like, "No, no, no. That's your forte. >> Um, oh, good question. Fun question. Um, I love Podlux. I love it when people bring, you know, I'm always encouraging people to um to bring what they like and it comes together beautifully, I think, as a um spread. I think uh there's nobody has a problem like that. I don't feel fancy in any way. I'm very down to earth. I have a question I wanted to insert when you're done. >> Yeah. >> Is as a restaurant owner and a and a cookbook creator, like do you put like all your secrets in the cookbook or do you like hold some out? >> Oh, good question. Um, when was the Raw Alchemist published? the first publication I think it was is it 2016 I think >> she didn't have all her secrets to put it in it then she's grown since then >> she writing another one >> I saved um I saved a recipe that was very dear to my heart I didn't put it in book >> um the chewy bar Um, and so that was something that Yeah. It it didn't feel uh like I was ready to share it yet. >> Yeah. >> Um because also people the chewy bar was the first recipe that I created, the first chocolate recipe that I created for alchemy. And it was a time when I didn't know how alchemy was going to be met by the public. I I didn't know if it was going to be um popular or not. And I was a little bit nervous and I was a classically trained chef, but I hadn't, you know, had a restaurant before and I hadn't had that much experience with raw chocolate. And so I was in my kitchen trying different recipes and when I came up with the Chewy bar, I was like, "Yes, this is going to work." >> Yeah. And it did. >> Yeah. And that became like our our highest selling chocolate recipe until the >> um until the alligator >> alligator. >> But that the chewy bar was first. And so it was it meant a lot to me that recipe and I sort of kept it in my heart. >> But um it's gonna come in the new cookbook. So >> really, you're gonna let go of it? Yes. Amazing. There you have it. She's ready. >> She's ready. The other one is uh how do you how do you interface with like local talent and and like your your staff is all local largely? >> Yeah. >> Is there a training program at like Alchemy restaurant that you put them through? >> Um well, we do have um how can I say this? So it's like an internship when pe when we open in Changangu, we have people interning at Alchemy Ubud. So okay, that's kind of the best way for for them to learn. And then >> um >> I had a tour guide drop me off a week and a half ago, same day I took durian. I tried durian for the first time and he said, >> "I was a waiter at alchemy 12 years ago >> and it must have been right when it started or something like very recently." And I said, "How'd you like it?" And he said, "I loved it." >> Oh my gosh. >> It was one of the best jobs I ever had. And he said, "But you know, grew up, had a family, made more money as a tour guide." But he loved it. And I thought amazing having a waiter who worked there maybe 7 to 12 years ago like say that they still one of their favorite jobs they've ever had. >> A Balines guy from Bur. >> Oh my god. >> So how cool. And you I think it's the internship thing that you're talking about, you know. >> I love to hear that. >> Yeah. >> Do you have a high turnover rate with staff or do you find that they mainly stay >> in the kitchen? We have a really low turnover >> and we have people who have been there since the very beginning and we hope that they always stay. >> Yeah. >> Uh so yeah, the kitchen is very slow turnover and we we're very happy about that. We love our our stuff. >> I have a like an off-kilter question, but they are so beautiful and so cool. You know the takeaway containers, >> the banana leaves. I'm obsessed. Was that the idea of alchemy or did you find someone in Ubud who was making that? >> I mean, a fully plantbased container lined with a banana leaf. It's unbelievably cool. >> Yeah, it when uh when we first opened Alchemy, >> we wanted to find a way to have no plastic and I we saw these offerings that people were creating. um >> using fronds and leaves and things like that from the coconut palm tree and from banana uh trees. And so we I saw that they were quite elaborate and then we asked them if they could make that size and that shape and we sort of worked together with um some local people to develop this and u it makes the food more delicious. I swear it does. You know, it makes me more excited to eat it. It's in a living container. >> Exactly. >> You know, instead of like some cold I'm >> Yeah. so smitten with it. It looks like a present. Like when I first saw it, I thought my daughter had bought herself something. I was like, "What is that?" And she was like, "Alchemy salad." And I was just like, "It's beautiful. I love that." It's so uh heartwarming to hear that that >> you have that reaction because um >> it's something that it's always been our signature thing since we started and um we we're always going to keep doing it and we love it so much. Um, and we hope other people copy us and do the same and that, you know, more uh plant-based natural containers and >> yeah, you can't get more compostable, you know, it's just it's all around us. It's just brilliant. Yeah, absolutely. I love that. >> And it's the same with the uh papaya straw. I don't know if you've >> Yeah. >> seen that. >> I love that. Yes, it's beautiful, too. And it's >> it's more there's something about an organic material that the body wants to engage with even as a vehicle, you know, it's um Ethiopian food has endura bread that you scoop up with it. >> I love that. >> Like that to me makes a lot of sense, you know, using the food to eat the food. >> Exactly. So so clever. >> Yeah, absolutely. I love that. You have any other questions? Don't want to cut you off. >> Irish moss. Was that the secret to the ice cream? That's right. >> Ah, >> did you read that in the cookbook? >> I split the two different like Irish I hadn't run into that as a thickener and special >> I haven't had it alone yet >> as opposed to what agar agar or like the other thickeners that they're using. Yeah, Irish moss and sea moss is a um topnotch seaweed which is so full of minerals and um super nutrientdense and also works as you know instead of >> gelatin and other >> agar and other thickeners. Um I mean we use agar also it's great um too but um Irish moss is raw. You can use it raw. How cool. >> Yeah. Um and um Yeah. So that's so such a whole food compared to using powders and >> Yes. >> other things like that. >> Yeah. >> I think that a lot of people lean heavily on thickeners when there are alternatives like this Irish moss >> that um are much more clever and um robust, you know, nutritionally and just creative. >> Um you now know the secret. Yeah. >> And you haven't seen the machine. That was another part of the secret. Her becoming best friends with this m magnificent machine that she had to wield, you know. >> Yeah, I'd love to see that machine. Now that I've heard the story, I need to put eyes on it. >> It's there in alchemy. You can see it. Yeah. When you um when you get the ice cream, you'll see it. Yeah. >> Awesome. We're good. Shanti, thank you so much for meeting with me. I appreciate all of your time today and all of your information. You have such a amazing It's not just what you've built, but the history and the future look very much so the same as the present, >> which is just this, you know, very actualized life that you're living. I can't wait to um come back and find out where alchemy is in a couple of years because >> well, I think it will be there. I think it's always growing and changing. >> Thank you so much. >> Thank you. >> Yeah, I think Thanks for listening to Borderless. I hope you enjoyed this conversation. If you like this episode, please subscribe so that you can continue to hear fascinating conversations as I continue to wander the globe. You can follow us on Instagram at borderless-odcast or head over to our website borderless-podcast.com for more info and updates. This episode was produced by Patricia Kathleen Productions and a special thank you to the team that makes it all happen. Charie Turnate, Emma Baker, and Finn Wild. Wherever you are in the world, I hope our conversation made you feel a little more seen and connected. Until next time, take good care. [Music]