# Plant Bistro Ubud

Published: 2025-07-01

I was talking about a connection before between me, the place, the food, the the love for food, but even with the people that are working with me. Without them, I can I couldn't do that. So is very important for me to have good people with a good connection. Family, right? Like familial is like what it comes down to in a restaurant, you know? Yeah, sure. I think all over the world. [Music] Hi, I'm Patricia Kathleen. I travel the world with a mic in hand and questions to ask. And this is where those conversations live. My guests and I get into everything. Work, identity, creativity, purpose, the big stuff, the messy stuff, and the stuff that actually matters. From alleyway chats to studio sitdowns, I bring you with me as I talk to chefs, scientists, artists, activists, whoever around me has a story worth hearing. Wherever you're listening from, welcome. I'm glad you're here. Now, let's get into it. Give me their full name and your position and status at the restaurant. Uh, okay. Yeah. Uh, hi. I'm Simona Piki and I'm the head chef and the founder of Clamistro. Uh, okay. Where are you from originally? I'm originally from Italy. Which part? Tuskani. Tuskani. Wow. From Pisa. Okay. How long have you been in Ubud? Uh I've been here in Hobud uh 13 years. Wow. Yeah. When did you found Plant Beastro? Are you the main founder? Are you a co-founder? Yes, I'm a co-founder. Uh the the concept comes from me. Uh uh I'm the founder with other four partners. Uh one of them is my husband and uh we it was a long one time I have in mind I had in mind this concept but co stop us to go home and to open this restaurant. So when did um plant bero open? Uh plant opens uh on 2023 uh in August. open our door in August. Yes. So relatively new on the scene. Like it's kind of a baby in the Ubud scene. That's crazy because everyone I talk to knows of it for it just being around for 2 years. Everyone I I try to impress people. I'll say, you know, I need to take you somewhere as a vegan. You need to eat at this place. And everyone says, I know it. Everyone knows Plant Beastro. Like it's got so much fame. And I'll tell you, I honestly all biased aside, I know I eat here probably more than anyone in Ubud, but it's because it's so good, you know, it's and it's also a marriage. I would go anywhere for your food. Really, I would eat anywhere in Ubud. I'd eat it on the street for your food, but also the environment is so beautiful. I want to look at a little bit of that. So, when you chose to start Blamp Beastro, did you decide to do it to start a new menu or just a new endeavor? And did the location have anything to do with it? Uh yeah. Uh I didn't have any place in mind. I was waiting for a very nice, beautiful uh place uh that will have a connection with with me, with my recipes, with my with me. Yes. And Blanco family uh as to to have a look here. They will be happy to to look this place. And when I saw it, I fell in love at the first time. Of course, was so beautiful. So yes, probably this is my place. Did you have to do any renovation or was this structure just existing? No. Uh there was only the this part without uh windows, without anything. Oh wow. So we never renovated completely. Yes. Unbelievable. How long did it take you? I don't really do remember maybe five months. Yes. Around five months. [Music] So was it difficult to start a second one or was it easier because you had already started a restaurant? Uh uh being a different concept was a little bit different from the from Lostia. uh when we open lusteria is uh the concept is already uh going uh by itself. So if you have a good setting uh good standard uh you need to find only the the good people to go home about this was the first one and not so simple because the vegan food is quite difficult if you want a very good food and no only uh salads of course you have to develop um uh many things without many times we cannot find uh items for our recipes. So um what is difficult when you have uh completely uh maybe 90% of our menu homemade. Yeah. So uh you we are not in Europe and for me was really uh challenging uh to de to develop these recipes. Uh um during co time I studied a lot. I had time because uh I was not working and but was good for me to develop everything and to think about this and I was talking about a connection before between me the place the the love for food but even with the people that are working with me without them I can I couldn't do that. So is very important for me to have good people with a good connection. Family, right? Like familial is like what it comes down to in a restaurant, you know. I think all over the world, but Bali has a very serious sense of um ecosystem and family, you know, based in I find every single enterprise, you know, from yoga studios to restaurants, it's very family based. I think there is the best energy ever here. Yeah, the view. I mean, the location is spectacular. It cannot be argued with. I want to unpack your menu because this is something um you're a chef. It's your restaurant. Um and this is usually the epicenter, the heart cordone, you know, of the entire restaurant. Did you start out with the menu that you currently have? Did you start out with a smaller menu? How did you start out looking at the menu and what you wanted to offer? We started direct with this kind of menu. I didn't have a smaller because I was really happy to offer and to uh to have this such uh of things uh because when I think about something to hear I would love to to eat this. So why I cannot put in my menu and why not this? Why not this? So was really huge at the beginning and was so simple. No, not too difficult. So you had a bunch of things from the beginning. From the beginning. Yes. Yeah. And you knew you were doing pasta. Is that because you're Italian or because it's what you love? Is there a difference? Yes, for sure. because I'm Italian and I love and was quite challenging uh to develop the recipe for pasta because it's not only vegan but it is even gluten-free and if you have a look uh and you tried some gluten-free pasta they are full of not healthy ingredients right first and second when you cook uh it's not so good. So, I'm very proud of this uh recipe uh because uh many people don't understand it is gluten-free. So, yeah, I'm blown away by the pasta and um I do gluten-free mainly and um all gluten-free pasta that I've tried over the past seven years, the texture is off. It falls apart. When I personally go to cook with it, it's a nightmare. I don't prefer it when other people are making it. Um, and I was told that I would be obsessed with your pasta and I am. It's not it. The the texture, everything is authentic pasta to me and what I recall when I was eating, you know, regular pasta noodles. Um, the colors on the plate with your pasta are for me magnificent. The char Okay, I'm biased. the charcoal toolini with the the beautiful kind of beet, you know, red on the bottom. That kind of it reminds me of Valentine's Day or love, you know, there's just something so romantic about it. All of those different things. When you were approaching your pasta, you have five or six, that's it. You know, you're very clean with that. You've got pizza is pasta. You also do breakfast. Um, I always come at 12:30 because I can order the salmon toast as well as pasta before it cuts off. How did you decide what you were going to put for breakfast, lunch, and dinner? And did you insist on keeping everything at like five or six pastas, a few pizzas, or was it just it naturally came together? It was uh quite difficult to set up the menu. uh because it is I'm Italian so uh I would love to to have mostly Italian food here but in it is an international place so we have to give uh something to other people that don't know Italian maybe some comfort food like sushi or uh some bowls something to refresh what's the most difficult thing for you to constantly keep for the pasta in general? Do you have to import something for it? Like what's the most difficult thing to make sure that you always have your pasta ready? Is everything available in Bali or do you worry about having specific items? Yes, I'm a little bit about that. Uh sometimes we couldn't because uh is based on chip flour as well and sometime we could we cannot find we buy uh the the wool uh chippies and we process to have the flower. Okay. So we always think about a plan B. Yes. Of course you have to right. Oh, you have to. Yeah. Every time. Yes. Who designed the interior of the space? Was that your vision working with somebody else? Because it has this Bali meets Tuskany for me. It feels like the two have met here. Is Was that your vision? Okay. I I had in mind a very nice place uh in Italy that is uh Castello Drescco and it it it is a colonial house, a very whole house um from middle age around this age and they built a nice uh greenhouse uh in the middle and wow It's quite beautiful. It's very beautiful. I would love to to have a s in my place. So I took the inspiration from this place and work with other with some designer and my husband as well. Okay. So the restaurant that was the inspiration had a greenhouse kind of in the middle of the restaurant. Wow. Started from the greenhouse. Yes. Beautiful. And it it's Yeah. I mean, I can see that, you know, with the the bar area, like the inspiration and the greenery all around has that essence, that vibe of greenhouse. So, looking at your menu. Um, do you have do you let what is purchased guide or do you stay with you said, you know, what's on the menu is what I like to eat, what I miss, what I want. And then also incorporating people, tourists, and people who might come to fall. That's kind of the composition. Yeah. Um, does everything sell equally as well or have things kind of gone off the menu? Yes. Um, just few dishes, two or three since the beginning. Uh, but the problem is that I have always something in mind to have. So, the danger will be okay. It will be too too long our menu because uh every month I check all our dishes, all the what we sell and okay everything is good. What what we can take off if I want to have something. It's quite difficult if you uh Yes. Yeah, I see that. What's your favorite thing on the menu? Uh my favorite things is different from what I love to eat and love to cook. Okay. I don't know why I love to to cook ratoto. It takes long time around because we cook we we don't use to precook our rice and uh it took like until the plating around 30 minutes 25 30 minutes. So the customer know already thanks to our staff on the floor they explain to them but they are very happy to wait and see the result and to try it. So they probably have some appetizer first. I suggest to have something first. And yes, I love to cook it because uh uh I love colors and it is made by purple cabbage and at the end had some color flowers. What I love to eat, I always think about something fresh and healthy. It depends on on the day. Uh, yes. When you started out, what was your favorite dish to eat from the menu? Do you remember putting something on the menu and thinking, I love this salmon? My vegan salmon. Yes. Yeah. I love it. The the salmon toast. The same. Yeah. Toast. And we put in our brisket as well. I The last one was the black charcoal croissant with salmon. Love it. the um your cheese gets a lot of love on the street. The streets of Uba talk about your cheese, you know, and they talk about the pasta, but in specifically the cheese that you're putting on um like the salmon toast inside the tortoillini. Did you have to play with that recipe for a long time? Yes, a lot. Okay. Is it is it something that was a great triumph or was it just naturally something that you worked with that you came to? uh natural uh I was thinking okay I can start from nuts let's see if I can add this um yeah it was a long process until when okay I love this result stop but from this result after that I can try with other kind of nuts adding something different to have different flavor and different textures as well but we are still studying about to develop some different kind of cheese uh since long time but since it's quite difficult to have some ingredients I'm still looking about that to to develop gorgonola mozzarella all of those right yes um do you what do you usually work with when you work with cheese are you using nuts are using coconut I know in Greece they play around a lot with olive oil to get their vegan cheeses. Do you play with all different kinds of bases or do you do you stick with one? It depends on what kind of cheese I want to realize. Uh the base could be uh cashewut, almond or chippies. Mhm. Sometime soy. Uh depends on the flavor that we you want to to have. Sounds like a huge endeavor. Like I've tasted a lot of I'm going to a cheese convention in Bangkok in a week just because vegan cheese blows me away, you know, the different ways you can play with it and the consistencies and the different um and like no one's ever come up with a vegan Stilton, you know, and I think that that's getting into like the blue like that's more of a difficult realm to kind of mimic. Um this I want to get into the space a little bit and events and things that happen here. Does Zest host events or sorry Zest I was at Zest yesterday. Does Plant Beastro host events and if so do you reach out to people and say you can use our space or do they reach out to you? Usually people reach us to to have uh some space to for some events. Yes. It's I like I could picture someone wanting to get married here. Is that too far off or do you think that people will eventually say, "Can we host our our wedding there?" Because it seems like such a romantic the chandeliers and all of that. I would love to to have some wedding here. Yeah. Yeah. It's a big big space. You have a lot of tables for Uber. You know, the the places like it's rare to have something of this size. Um, did you know when you started that you were going to do breakfast, lunch and dinner, or did you think that you were just going to do like lunch and dinner? Was it always going to be three meals a day? Uh, since the beginning, I was planning to open since uh breakfast in the morning because I had many lots of food in mind. So, I want to offer directly every day to the customer. Yes. So how many staff are working in one day? Do you know? Kitchen, host, wait staff, everyone included. M about the kitchen uh we have two shift morning and uh afternoon night. And we are around in one day 12 because we have a lots of preparation in the morning. Mhm. Uh so people that focus on preparation cannot cook over of course and yes 12 in a day. 12 yeah it's a lot. It's it's a big space and you have a bar. You've got a lot of different sections. Do um do you have a staff retention like uh do you still have people that started the restaurant with you or is there a lot of turnover they say in the United States like you know do people come and stay in their job or do they leave after a while? Uh not really. They stay we don't we didn't have a a lot of turnover. Yeah. On the floor a little bit more. Yes. Uh but not for not for the kitchen. Not really for the kitchen. And my second hand is working with me since 6 years. We founded the the first restaurant together and still me working. Yes. So cool. I've heard a lot of those stories in Bali where people just, you know, get trained up. Do you u mainly hire Balines people and train them or do you ever hire any like have you ever brought a chef in from Italy? My second name is local is Balanese. Okay. Yes. So always and you train them up. Yeah. To from the the beginning. Yes. Yeah. Sure. Uh many of them don't know really what is vegan, what is the difference between vegan and vegetarian. Uh so I need to train them every day. Every day. And since the beginning when we had some interview to hire people I asked them some knowledge h but it doesn't matter if they don't know the most important things is their attitude. Mhm. We have time to learn the connection the chemical and so we train them every day. We have briefing every day in the kitchen and in the floor around 1 hour and I participate in in the kitchen as well in the on the floor with the waitress waiter and manage Balanese food is beautiful. It's a little different from Italian food or a lot different I think. Yeah. when they when you introduce them to it, anyone who's working here, do you have to kind of explain like what they should be looking for because it's it's different the textures, the flavors, you know, to learn how to like explore it is to learn how to explain what you should be looking for in Italian food. Do you have a way that you explain that? Uh I need to explain everything of course but as I was uh saying before looking for people that have passion um you mean uh the stuff. Yes. Yeah. Uh if people have passion they are open to to learn and to understand everything. Of course it's very diff different Italian food from the Indonesian one. Uh and the most difficult thing is that we don't use any uh chemical flavor any chemical color or MSG. So we are looking for the umami flavor without this uh kind of thing that can help and it's very challenging but I'm so proud of it. Yeah. And I'm proud of them because they're uh once they uh learn to cook without MSG and they don't want to go back. Mhm. And use them anymore. So because they already know how to cook it in with a good flavor, you converted. You converted them. Absolutely. Um there you have a couple of Balines dishes on your menu. Yes. Right. So when you went to make those, did you look to other Balines people for those recipes or did you kind of taste it and come up with your own version of them? Um, I asked their help. Of course, my secondand of course can help me about uh especially to find some local uh herbs uh to use in uh uh our recipes from my home. Yes. I have something that I love and ask is it okay if you if we put in this recipe or uh does it make sense? Of course. Yeah. Absolutely. Another main thing on your menu that gets a lot of attention and talked about a lot with people I speak to is um the alcohol, the drinks, you know, cuz you're offering a Negroni that the only other Italian I know in Ubud says it's the only Negroni in all of Bali that I'll have. You know, it's it's this amazing. And I'm wondering um with your alcohol, is it difficult to We're on an island. It's not the same thing as ordering alcohol as a restaurant owner in Europe, in the United States. Is it difficult to keep your bar fully stocked and to also keep those menus going or is it simple? It's not so difficult. We br we um we make our uh some of of the alcohol drinks. So we produce by ourself with a sweet method uh that so we are so different from others and some of vegan people of course don't consume uh alcohol but our restaurant is open to everyone so and I'm very happy to that no vegan people come every day so they ask for hardco and what do you think about if you would just speculate. We could there's no way of knowing of course, but um if you speculated with like the average um customer that you have, do you think that some are vegan, some are not? Do you think that most people come because they hear it's vegan or they hear it's great Italian food? Do you get a sense for that? I don't really know. You don't know? Yeah. It's hard to speculate, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Uh many many times the staff uh chef can you come some customer want to meet you and many times I ask them you are vegan or not why you are here uh and they're very happy to to to try this this food even if they are not vegan. So every every time I ask them to to have to understand what kind of custom we have and why especially why you're here. Mhm. Are you personally vegan? Yes. Yourself? Okay. Yes. I know that a lot of chefs who own vegan restaurants aren't. You know, it's not it's it's um it's like a genre, you know, it's something that they can execute, but they they go in a lot of areas. So you starting a vegan restaurant was very personally based. Yeah. Um what's the best seller? Do you know what sells most? Um of course salmon brisketa, salmon toast and panki with butter sage. Uh on top I put some homemade uh black parmesan. Mhm. And tunarelli carbonara. Yeah. all family favorites with us as well. So that makes sense. Um, what does your do you ever dine here? Do you come and eat here? Does your husband come and dine here? Yes. What's his favorite thing to have? My husband favorite temper. Mhm. Or pai. Yeah. my daughter because we have dinner here usually on Sunday because it is I keep this day for family time but at the end for dinner we come here so I can enjoy I can see how the the stuff outside the kitchen can work and speak with the customer as well. Nice. And my daughter my daughter's favorite is uh sushi. The sushi. Yes. Yeah. And faster, of course. Is she a teenager? She she is 10 years old. Oh, advanced sushi at 10. Okay, I see her. That's nice. Excellent. Do you think um it's going so well and I hate to ask a question about the future when the present is so wonderful? I'm assuming it's going well for you because it's going well for everyone coming here. I know the stress and the burden is a different thing, but do you have plans for the future? Yes, of course we have. We are evaluating some opportunities at the moment. Uh so do you think you'll ever open another one in Bali or would you just leave it as as plant beastro and do a separate restaurant if you did another one? Yes, we are thinking about to open one more. not to do too much because will be like a chain I don't want right because uh it will be very different and I I'm afraid the soul of plan BRO will finish. Yeah. So one two maximum three it's enough right? How much are you here? Honestly, how often are you at Plant Beastro yourself? Every day. Every day since around yesterday since 10:00 in the morning until 11. Yeah. In the night. This is your house. This place more than anywhere. Unfortunately, I say that because of my daughter and husband. But yes. Yeah. So, you're always here boots on the ground. Yeah. What's been the big the largest difficulty that you've had over the past 2 years? The largest difficulty or the greatest stress? A great stress to manage uh some problems that come from the the weather, right? So structural problem or sometimes yes to how to manage family and job. Yeah. Yeah. As is mine. Yeah. The most difficult one is this. Yeah. The bakery is its own kingdom downstairs. Is that all you or did was that outsourced? Because the amount of baked um items and desserts that you have downstairs is amazing. And I have not had a bad one. It's just insane. I have favorites, but I've tried about 90% and they are all so amazing. It's very rare to have a chef that also does dessert or pastry. Is that you or someone else? It's part of my history because my family own a bakery since 1950 Italy. Okay. And I worked there when I was in Italy. Uh I was a chef as well. So it's part of my life, the bakery. Incredible. You must be the world's greatest like person to have around the house. You're not around your house right now, but that would be unbelievable. So you do love to bake those things. Unbelievable. I grew up on the on flower tower in the bakery. My father put put me over there and I was looking everything and studying. My grandmother was there working. Yes. Was the best smell in the world. The best smell. Yes. You said the truth. Yeah. Absolutely. I love it. Everything. Um I I come here enough to know that the bakery like if it's too late it's mainly, you know, sold out. Everyone's gotten word of it. Even the um the very small sugar cookies that come with the cappuccino, but you can also buy them in the bakery. I buy them by the dozen. I get so many of them. They are so perfect. The gentle note of lemon and just the texture, it's amazing. So, did you have all of those recipes when you started up or have you started adding to the bakery as well? Uh, well, now I was in Italy. I didn't have vegan item. I de I developed some of them over there. Uh, the last year was in Italy. Yes. But mostly here with my experience uh based on the usual one the normal one we can say normal but we don't know what is normal really normal and yes from then I uh changed to to vegan. Yes. Mhm. What's your favorite thing to bake in the bakery and what's your favorite thing to eat in the bakery? My favorite to to eat is uh my my food. So budo. Now we we are out of stock and uh crossstatina with jam bu that is uh past that remember me of my childhood. Mhm. What I love to do more is the the breads because remember me my father, my family of course, my grandfather, my grandmother. Yeah. And the smell that you said before. That smell is it it triggers me as well to childhood. I love baking bread. Yeah. And uh we use sourdough even to make the the pizza. And this sour dough h is not really the sour that we can find here in Bali. Is the real one that is uh the name is wild east. It's made uh I made it like 16 years old. Uh 16 years. Yeah. Um, it is 16 year old. Yes. Made in Italy. And I You designed the recipe of the sourdough bread at 16 years old that you're currently employing here. Yeah. I brought here. Incredible. Yes. It's your oldest child. Yes. It's like a child. You have to take care every day like a child. Yes. Incredible. To give food. Yes. Absolutely. That's amazing. My favorite dessert in the bakery. I go back and forth. I have a lot of loves down there, but um the custard um yeah, round custard kind of filled doughut. I can't remember what it's called. That one. The one that opens up with the cream and the strawberries across. Oh, this is marsu. That one my children say it looks happy. It looks like it's smiling. It's like a smile. Maritosia are original from Rome. Yes. It's again very romantic, very happy. Everything down there just looks so happy. I haven't explored a lot of Italian bakery sweets. Um, I haven't explored a lot of Italy, but now this in Bali has made me obsessed with going to Italy and looking more seriously because everything just seems so happy and intense and romantic and playful all at the same time, even on your plate. So, you have some very um like playful plating, you know, like even the plates themselves. There's one that's a half moon. It's cut off. Was all of that by design by you? Like just the the way that the dish is presented, the different styles of plates, that was all thought of by you? No, not really. I bought in a place here in Bali. I Yes, of course. I'm uh always look for some uh plates that are that match with us with the dish. Um yeah, sometime I ask to to do some uh custom uh for us. Yeah. Nice. It's exciting. I mean I think that the entire ambiance came together. I'm a super fan so it means I'm not impartial but it doesn't mean we can't talk about it. You know it doesn't mean we can't unpack it. I don't believe anybody who came here would um you know would not be happy. I just don't. I think that if they didn't like something, then it was something that they didn't like to begin with. Try another thing. You know, I've tried I think 90% of most of the things and I have favorites, but everything is great. You know, I liked the burger I tried one time and I'm not really a vegan burger person. That's not really my um avenue of eating, but it was magnificent. You have one on the menu. Did you know what you were doing with the vegan burger when you went to make it? Because you've got a really robust flavor. Yeah. Um, me too. I'm not really a burger lovers, but yes, why not? We should have in our menu. And I Okay. When I was in mine, I had in mind to to do that. Uh, I would love to make something different and to play with colors. Of course, we should have uh protein inside. So, to have a complete dish uh and yes, I use natural color to do that to do our bread and mayo as well. Uh the charcoal bun. That's handsome. I love that black bun on um another sandwich. Is it the burger? I can't remember. The black bun. The black one. Yes. Yeah. I love that. Yeah. Exciting, right? So, you wake up, you basically live here. Do you think every day about tweaks that you want to make to the restaurant or are you just keeping it naturally functioning and healthy? Yes, I think this going on naturally. Naturally. Yeah. It's good. The restaurant seems very happy. Are you happy? Are you happy with the way it's going? Yeah, I'm really, really happy. I couldn't be more happy than that. That's wonderful. So, you knew you were sitting down with me today and you I didn't send you any questions and so there's probably not a lot of information that you had. I mean, I sent a few to the manager, but when you were thinking about the interview, was there anything that you were thinking I would ask that I haven't asked you that you wish I had? I I was really uh afraid about that because of course my English was not was so is so bad and a little bit stress but it was a a very a pleasure. Yeah, your English is phenomenal. No, it is. It really is. I had no issue. I've gone through I it's I've I've gone through much much more intense, you know, kind of pausing and navigating. It's incredible. Um yeah, I think that this space I haven't ever been to the Blanco Museum. I know I now know the story behind him and him being gifted all of the land from the king of Bali and married to a Balines woman, all of that. But it's kind of amazing to be right next to a museum as well. I mean, when they found Did you have like a realtor find this space for you and say, "I think I've got something for you." Like, how did you know this existed? I I knew the previous Western was here uh before COVID because I I eat here and I visit the the museum. Okay. So, yeah. I mean, you can see just the most amazing view from here. I love it. I love the the temple over there. It's I used to go with the staff over there in a special occasion. Nice. Yeah. And your staff is family, so you're set. Yeah. That's wonderful. And I know um that it's it's a it's both a a pain and a necessity to speak with someone like me, but I love your food and um I love getting to know you and hearing about it. And I'll be back in February and I'll be here, you know, two, three times a week with my family like we always are. always here but in the kitchen. We're here on Sunday. I think I miss you because I asked someone one time because Daario said she comes in, you know, a lot. She's always there and I asked someone and they said she comes in on usually in the evening and we come in Sunday like noon with me and my four children, you know, huge family, but um it's the best. And we had it delivered one time and it was really good, but we all felt a little sad cuz it was like, no, we like being there, you know? It's such a special place. Deliver is good if you have to, but like Yeah, I lost so much to to deliver the food. Mhm. Because it changed, of course. It's different. I know. But you cannot talk teenagers out of wanting. They need your food. They need it desperately. Oh wow. Yeah, it's wonderful. One final question I always ask every chef I talk to, and I've talked to probably well over 30 chefs in the past 5 years. When you get invited to a dinner party or anything else, is it expected that you show up with some of your food or it, you know, as a chef, is it like being a doctor at a dinner party where someone's like, "Hey, can you take a look at this for me?" you know or is it do you ever get time off? Do you ever get to just go and enjoy someone else's cooking? Depends from the people. If they are friends, it's normal to speak about food. You know, Italian speaks speak all the time about food. Yeah. So, it come normally with other people. Yes. Sometimes as about my job, about some recipes or something or Yes, it's normal. So, it's not a problem. Yes, there's always you have a problem. No, for me it's not a job. Yeah, it's life. It's like it's Yes, it's life and it make me make me make me happy. So, it's not my problem. What was your father's favorite dish? Bread. Yes. Uh yeah, pasta. Yeah. Excellent. Fish. They are not vegan, of course. Yeah. And my I have a background of uh seafood. Mhm. Uh dish. So my grandmother was a very very good uh chef at home. Yeah. Sounds like a good upbringing. That food alone, I feel like that's heaven. You know, bread is everything. I agree. Thank you so much for meeting. I appreciate you so much. I really do. Thank you. Wonderful. Hi, I'm Patricia Kathleen. I travel the world with a mic in hand and questions to ask. And this is where those conversations live. My guests and I get into everything. work, identity, creativity, purpose, the big stuff, the messy stuff, and the stuff that actually matters. From alleyway chats to studio sitdowns, I bring you with me as I talk to chefs, scientists, artists, activists, whoever around me has a story worth hearing. Wherever you're listening from, welcome. I'm glad you're here. Now, let's get into it. [Music]