# Earth House Bangkok Thailand

Published: 2025-09-11

friendly. And it's funny because my friends who have restaurants all told me like whatever you do, don't do it alone. And then, you know, I was like, "No, I can I got this." And my mom says, "I would have to learn everything the hard way." And yes, here we are. I decided to do it all alone. She's great. >> Yeah. Like, no partner, no. Is she here? Does she live in Thailand? She does. She lives in patio where I grew up. Does she come hang out here? Yeah. All the time. and she'll like rearrange all my furniture. She'll be like, "Um, I don't like this table here, so I'm just going to put it over there." And I'm like, "Mom, please don't touch it." And then I'll go upstairs to the office or something. Come back out. Everything will be rearranged or there'll be like a new like plant or candle or little gift from the >> Yeah. All the time. >> Hi, I'm Patricia Kathleen. I travel the world with a mic in hand and questions to ask. And this is where those conversations live. My guests and I get into everything. Work, identity, creativity, purpose, the big stuff, the messy stuff, and the stuff that actually matters. From alleyway chats to studio sitdowns, I bring you with me as I talk to chefs, scientists, artists, activists, whoever around me has a story worth hearing. Wherever you're listening from, welcome. I'm glad you're here. Now, let's get into it. >> What is that used for? >> Um, we host a bit of everything up here actually. We have regular yoga classes. Um, we have breath work sessions, sound healing. >> Yeah. >> Uh, corporate like gatherings. Um, >> yeah. Corporate gatherings. That's what I felt like. I felt like it was a space of possibility. >> Yeah. So, I mean, it's not quite finished to be honest with you cuz this whole house, um, the experience of building this house was pretty crazy. >> And you built it from the ground up. We were just talking about that >> pretty much. Yes. Um, it was a house 70 years ago that the landlord lived in with his family. And all that was left of it was like the main hard pillars. So there were like eight pillars and like half of a staircase and some of the upstairs. Huh. There were no walls, there was no floor, there was no garden, there were none of the buildings outside. So was it meant to be? Was it dilapitated or was it kind of meant to be this half house? >> No, it was just No one had taken care of it. It was falling apart. >> Okay. >> Um and this actually wasn't the original location I was going to take. >> Oh, how did you find it? It was pretty crazy. So it's actually kind of weird. I was walking around one night like just I don't remember what exactly I was walking down the soy um with my partner and we walked in this tiny little soy and we saw this like rundown house and we were like oh my gosh who would ever be crazy enough to take a house like that and didn't think anymore about it. Found another house I was planning on renting. um had already started planning the renovation and then the landlord changed his mind and rented it to someone else. So I was feeling a little heartbroken >> um and then started looking at another like a lot of other houses. >> Um but nothing was really feeling right and then someone sent me this house and I was like hm I don't know. Okay, let's just go and look at it. So we came in, looked at it and I I don't know. I just felt something. We walked into the back cuz I had never walked inside. I just saw it from outside before. And there's this huge like 100-year-old mango tree in the garden. And I thought, "Okay, I can imagine people sitting under this tree drinking wine." And I could kind of see what the house could look like. And then I just Yeah. I was like, "That's my answer." >> Okay. because you're like the 90th,000th person in Bangkok to tell me like the space chose me >> and it like it entices me and delights me and it terrifies me because I've never had space choose me and I don't know that feeling but you just described your own personal testimony and story to like it chose you. Mhm. >> And also backtracking just for personal curiosity, is it common to have like when in the real estate market if you're looking for opening like a restaurant, some kind of a space because this is more of a space than it just is restaurant work and things like that. That would be kind of heartbreaking. >> Yeah, it was heartbreaking. I don't I don't know. I mean, >> I don't know. I haven't looked at many houses to rent um or restaurants. This is I had a like where we started was in a really small space in Ecomi before this. Um, but that was my first time. And then this was like my first proper big renovation. I think things do fall through in Thailand, like when people can't agree with the landlord on terms and conditions of contracts and things like that. And I know a lot of things fall through once the renovation starts and the contractors disappear. >> Um, that happened to me. >> Really? >> Yes. >> Oh, that sounds like a nightmare. There's already nightmares that happen when people stay on on site on location and get the construction going to have teams just disappear. That's pretty common. >> Yes. >> My first contractor was someone I knew. Um so I trusted him and he asked for a massive down payment and like I mean I would never make this mistake again. But it was my first time doing such a big um job. And it's funny because I was trying to make this payment to him for like weeks and it would not go through >> and I was like, "Okay, there's something weird. I wasn't feeling quite right, but he was like, "We need to get started. You know, time is of the essence." >> And so I was like, "I'm going to try this one last time." >> And I tried and it went through and I had this like weird sinking feeling in my stomach and I felt like I don't know. Yeah. I don't know. and he's they came to work for like two weeks and then they stopped coming and just completely disappeared with the entire down payment. >> And there's no way to find them. It's just kind of difficult here. >> Yeah. >> I mean, he was American. He wasn't. Yeah. >> Oh, I would track that boy down. >> That's a whole another bag of worms. There's no getting out of jail free card, that one. Uh, wow. Gotcha. Yeah. Um, and I don't know like I think that there's different things at play in that that world. People who talk about building real estates, even in real estate in the United States, I get like it the whole industry is just like behind schedule, overpriced, and I'm just like I I can't it takes all sense and reason away from my life. I'm just not built for it, >> you know? So people like you have to find the sense of humor. I'm like, there's nothing funny about being late >> and like Yeah. and and owing twice as much. I don't mind it. >> Well, that's what happened. I mean, we we opened 8 months behind schedule. >> Um and so we had to close the old location before we opened here and that was not the plan. >> Okay. >> Um and I wanted to keep my whole team so we kept the team on. When I say we, I mean me in my restaurant. >> Yes. >> Refer to us as we. >> Um did you worry about customer retention? Yeah. Yeah. What kind of a break was there between the two locations? >> 3 months. Three. So long with, you know, only costs and no revenue coming in. Um, also like so stressful. Everything that could have gone wrong with this house went wrong. And like everything I thought could not possibly go wrong also went wrong. Um, yeah, it took me 11 months to renovate this place. Um, the layout is completely different than what I had originally planned >> due to constraints of like construction and piping and all of that >> money. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Mhm. Okay. >> How did you feel like do you even remember what you originally started with and you're like this is the 72 rendition? I don't know. >> I do. Yeah. I remember exactly what I wanted it to look like, but I kind of think maybe this worked out better. >> Yeah. >> I don't know. We were going to but I was going to extend this. Um, so this wasn't going to be an open space. This was going to be our open kitchen. Like a huge open kitchen. >> Okay. Okay. Yeah. >> Yeah. And then the store room was going to be behind there. Now we don't have a store room. The room I built with the intention of turning into a wine bar is nowhere store room. >> Um, but that's what I meant when I said like the studio isn't quite finished. I never really put all of the little touches I wanted to in there. Um, this house has taught me patience. >> Yeah. Such a big word for me. >> Patience and perseverance. >> So, did you when did you open this location? >> We opened in August 2023. >> So, you brand new toddler on the scene, but you were open in another location before that and that was in this area >> in Echomite. >> Echomite, right? >> Just a little shop house. So, it was like the perfect first place to see if I wanted to have a restaurant in Bangkok. >> Did the vision carry over? Was that more cafe? How many tops did you have? How many could you see? Like all of that? >> That was a cafe definitely. We could fit around 26 people in there. >> So, >> not tiny. >> Much smaller than here. Um, here on the inside, maximum we can fit like 50. >> Okay. We set up for 38, >> but um you can >> squeeze them in. >> We can squeeze them in when we have primed events and outside we can sit another 60 like 70 people for cocktail hour. >> Okay. And do you do cocktail hour for just events or do you have happy hour on your website >> every day? >> And does that So let's talk about customer. >> What um when you opened what 2 and a half years ago now? Um, who are did did you bring over your other customers from Echi? And also this is a different space. It's got a different vibe. Did you change like with that? Did you do wine at your other space or did you start with the wine? Cuz this, as you said, speaks to someone having a glass of wine under your 100-year-old tree. We changed a lot, I would say. Um, in the first place, it was much more of a cafe. People would come for brunch. It wasn't ever really late night dinners. Um, and I would say in the old place, most of our customers were beacons. >> Mhm. >> And then when we moved here, I think the space, like the whole menu changed with the space. We changed the name, too. Everything kind of evolved naturally. And our customers did too. I guess most of our customers now are not vegan. Um, and I kind of love that. >> Yeah, it's cool. Converting. >> Yeah. One person at a time. >> Yeah. And we I don't really consider us a vegan restaurant. Um cuz I think that word still has like a lot of stigma >> attached to it. People are scared of it. People don't want to try it because they have what they think it is. Um we're just a restaurant that serves good food and great wine, great food, great wine, and happens to not serve animal products. >> Yeah. >> And I think people are really receptive to it most of the time. Although we do get like the the odd person that comes in and doesn't realize it's there's no meat and then they refuse to try the food. Even if we're like, "You can try it and if you don't like it, you're gonna have to pay for it." They're like, "No, eat meat." >> Yeah. Well, and there's time for them to get them some other way. They're going to accidentally have like a dairyfree ice cream one day and be like, "I should eat the Earth House." >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> I got you. So, with the space, I want to kind of climb through your menu. I feel like I know it pretty well. I read menu like I read books. >> And so I think it's interesting because um we've talked off the record before we started rolling about how you know third culture people um and you are you know a conglomerate of a lot of different cultures raised in Thailand being in Bangkok. Now your menu kind of reads like that. It feels like there's an homage there's a recognition of being in Thailand, you know, some Thai dishes and clearly Thai spices and things but then it kind of branches out. So, tell me about how you cultivated and curated the menu. >> Honestly, it's mostly things that I want to eat. >> Yes, I love that. >> Um, what I felt like in Bang I feel like there's so many amazing plant-based restaurants in Bangkok, but when I first started becoming plant-based 10 years ago, there were not a lot of places you could go to and have like a really fun meal. It was either like a salad or a smoothie bowl or like French fries. You know, all of my friends would be out. We'd all be out together and they'd be having these really fun, amazing meals that were really creative and unique and like there was not really much for me to eat. Yep. >> So, I thought, okay, let's create a restaurant that feels like any other restaurant and has food like any other restaurant that just doesn't use animal products. And that's kind of how it started. And then um I have an amazing kitchen team and they all have lots of ideas and it's very collaborative and they bring you know we all create new things all the time to try with each other and then we're like we like that we don't like that and we'll add you know new ingredients. Yeah. Who do you collaborate with? So are you yourself like a chef a selfidentified chef and if not did you find a really amazing chef that you could kind of like you're saying collaborate communicate go back and forth? How did that all come together? So, I was a chef before um well before yes, I worked in resorts um and at hotels. I opened restaurants in resorts um and was a chef uh in Thailand on one of the islands. Um and then once I started opening the restaurant, um I was in the kitchen, but I also really loved being around the customers. And so I worked with the chef who's no longer with us at the old place. Um, and it was the two of us kind of creating all of these dishes. Um, and then when we moved here, some of my team came with me from there. Uh, yeah, we have like an amazing kitchen team and everyone on the kitchen team is really uh, creative, which makes it a lot of fun. Like there's no one person that I bounce ideas off of. It's kind of everyone. When you talk about collaboration and fluidity, well, let's talk about retention. How is back of the house versus front of the house? Is it even designed that way in Thailand? Like, do you have front of the house, waist staff, things like that back of the house? And there's a lot of turnover, you know, in most of the restaurant industries, especially in the United States. How's the turnover rate here? How's the retention rate? And do you feel like it's focused? >> Um, I think turnover rate is it can be pretty high in big. Um, also I think since co things have changed a lot and a lot of people want to work in big hotels and leave Thailand and go and work in the States or go and work in the Maldives. So a lot of people don't want to work in like little restaurants in Bangkok, which I find. And especially when it's plant-based, it can be a challenge for many people that are comfortable enough to work in a plant-based restaurant cuz they see it as something so different from anything that they've ever experienced. um not everyone's open to it, but here I mean we have an amazing team. A lot of them have been with me since actually the very beginnings of the old life. Um and I think we have like a really nice little family sort of situation going on. We have front of house and then we have kitchen. Um but a lot of the service team will get into the kitchen that they need to and help out and they get creative too. And sometimes we do like team meals and some of my team are from Myanmar, some are from the Philippines and they'll bring dishes from their home countries and try them all together and get new ideas for spices or ingredients. >> I love >> I love that. So on your kind of plant-based vegan journey, let's talk terms. And this is important because nobody I've not met one vegan, plant-based, any ethical, humanitarian, whatever that has the same definition. So I'm not trying to quiz or um convert you to mine. I just need to understand for you like what is kind of when I say it for you, how you define it for yourself like what is the difference between vegan and plant-based for you if there is one >> and like what is your personal journey with that? >> Okay. Um to me the difference between vegan and plant-based is vegan just means not containing any animal products and plant-based means made from plants more natural. So I think vegan can be very highly processed lots of added sugars um you know like fake meat and things like that whereas plant-based to me is produce used in fun and creative ways without all the processing. And so I see the restaurant our food is plant-based. We don't use fake meat products or anything like that. We make everything homemade. Um, and my journey, I mean, I've been plant-based for 10 years. When I first started, yeah, vegan, you know, using fake meats, cuz I was like, "Oh my god, I'm eating chicken. I need, you know, I need it." Now, I'm just much more interested in seeing what we can create with like mushrooms and beetroot and cashews and natural things. Right. Absolutely. So, the vegan community in Bangkok, as much as I've penetrated it in, you know, 10 days, um, it feels like y'all know each other, >> you know, like there is an actual camaraderie. Your name's been brought up before having met you like maybe five or six other interviews. So, it seems like people discuss one another, at least on the level you're at. Earth House is known, it's known on the online community. It's mentioned all of the time. How would you describe the the like plant-based vegan community in Bangkok? Do you think it's inclusive? Do you think it's sometimes, sometimes not? Do you think it's verbose or do you think it's quite small? How would you find it? >> Um, I think it's growing. I would say it's quite small, but there is a lot of camaraderie and I think everyone's very supportive of each other and all of us feel like there's space for everyone in Bangkok. Um, I love seeing new plant-based restaurants and I think every plant-based or vegan restaurant in Bingok is so unique that, you know, there's just like room for everyone and we all, you know, can create new things and everyone has their own identity as a chef and then every space has its own identity, too. They're all so different from each other. Okay, let's talk about the liquor market because you do encourage like this um cocktail moment and wine night and being from California, I have like a very specific understanding of the wine market and I spoke to someone in Kottow who was opening a wine shop there in 2023 and he was like you just you can't you can't get it and so I'm bringing it you know and then going to start a shop but how do you find the wine importation here? Do you not know any differently? So it's fine. Where are you getting most of your wines from? Like how you curate your liquor menu? >> I think the wine market in Bangkok is absolutely exploding. There are so many new wine bars, like incredible wine bars. Um wine is expensive in Thailand. Definitely more expensive than in the States or in Europe for sure. Import tax. But we have um access to amazing wine. And I was actually doing a I was speaking to someone about the the increase in wine consumption in Thailand just a couple of weeks ago. >> And he is a wine maker in Australia and he was saying like in the states wine bars are really limited um with their wine list because you have to order like cases of the wine that you want. Here we can order one bottle. So, if I want to have like 40 different wines on my wine list, I can contact my wine supplier and say, "I want one of each," and they'll send them to us. >> That's great. >> Yeah. So, it allows us to try pretty much anything that we want, which is super. I love wine. Um, not, you know, trained in it at all. I guess it's just like, you know, from experience. >> Absolutely. I do as well. and Australia as a as a younger um consumer of wine, I was able to go through Australia and you know they've got like the for me back in the early odds they had like a corner on the SRA and like a lot of things that I don't think that Napa or Sonoma County does very well. Love all of hometown but like you know it's like I just think that some regions do it better in different parts of the world. South Africa's got some great wine too. And it kind of depends and you're closer to the Aussies, you know, you've got access to all of them. So, I think it is vibrant. It's cool that it's opening up because I think it like >> it transforms. It's interesting when things like wine change because it transforms spaces like this one, you know? It's that it allows another option, another moment for things to change. >> What is your favorite thing on your menu >> right now? Doesn't have to be forever. It's just today. >> Yeah. Um, I mean, we change our menu so much. Um, I love the asparagus and marada. Like one of my all-time favorites. I eat that every day. And some of our mushroom dishes. We use incredible mushrooms from a local grower. Um, and they're just absolutely delicious with like some white lime and herbs and butter. So good. >> Um, lion's mane is making a massive appearance right now on the scene. Everybody's playing to it and I get it. It's versatile. Do you use it? Do you like it? >> We do. I love it. >> I love it. But I have to ask like why and how? And >> it's delicious and it's Yeah, it's versatile. You can make it kind of taste a little reminiscent of like a seafood dish or like a meat dish. You can make it taste like chicken or steak. And you know, I know a lot of vegan people might be like, "Why do you want it to taste like seafood or, you know, like chicken?" But I think in trying to get non-vegans to eat more vegan or plant-based, sometimes you have to give them something that, you know, feels familiar. >> Sure. >> And if you can make um a plant-based ingredient taste a little like something that reminds you of what you used to eat, I think that that's a that's fine and that's a good thing. And >> and mushrooms are a superfood, >> right? So you're really giving their body a kiss as well. >> Exactly. >> Like it's awesome. My network it's happening. That's fantastic. So, what is um Do you still cook from your Are you just owner now? Are you just managing all of the logistics or do you jump back in your kitchen? >> Um I don't really jump in the kitchen anymore during service. Um I'll make cheese and you know, I'll experiment with the team before service, but during service now I'm more like on the floor. Um and I think I've kind of I enjoy that more now. Yeah. whether it's just a phase and you know I'll want to hop back in. I don't know but it's been an intense few years building this space and I think yeah I just feel good in the house now and >> absolutely your hours are different. There's brunch on the weekends >> but then you're mainly a lunch and dinner or dinner is >> mainly dinner. Yeah. >> Okay. Was that because you felt like that was your market for the area? Um, when we first opened, we were doing all day brunch, brunch, lunch, and dinner. Um, and it was nice. Um, but we realized that people were kind of, it's a completely different vibe. Like in the evening, you get people coming on dates. You get people sitting for 3 hours and ordering a bunch of food and drinking wine. And um I felt like we just it just fit with our concept more. And then we thought, okay, let's do brunch on the weekends cuz this place is so beautiful in the daytime, too. And we have a fun brunch menu. But it was also having such a um being open for so many hours, you need a really good team. >> Mhm. Um so if you're open 6 or 7 days a week from 9:30 a.m. until midnight, you need a huge team. And you know, maybe one day, but yeah, not right now, >> right? >> How did Earth House, how did you get your name? >> Um, so the old place was called the Earthling Cafe. >> Okay. >> And then we moved here and I was like, it doesn't fit anymore. It's like Earth House. >> Yeah. I There are remnants of Earthling. Like it's not still open, right? Um because I think that I remember reading about it like on Happy Cow or something and then it kind of disappeared. >> So that's interesting. Um do you think that the like do you do you see vegan restaurants come and go in Bangkok or do you see them coming and staying? >> Um both a little bit both definitely. Um some that I really like have gone unfortunately. Um and there are a lot of new ones. Yeah. that there are some that have been around for a really long time like May Veggie. >> One of my favorites like when I first started >> She's an OG. >> Yeah. When I first started going plant-based like there all the time. I used to live nearby her restaurant and like >> Nice. >> Delicious. >> Yeah. She lives to convert, you know, and so I think that there's she serves as a bridge >> and I love people that are here to like kind of address the non-vegans of it all. Um it's crucial, >> you know, it's and she she lacks exclusivity and things like that. She's all about transparency. >> I love that as well. Um Bangkok itself is like coming in hard as a food capital. >> Everybody's talking about it, especially since um like co everybody's like it's a scene. It's Paris, London, you know, New York. But Bangkok's getting whispered about a ton, and that's got to affect the vegan plant-based community. There's no way I can't. >> Definitely. Something that I find very interesting though, um, when I first decided to open plant-based restaurant, you know, you're thinking like, okay, what other plant-based restaurants are there? You know, like who, you know, who who all is competing for all, you know, the market. not competing, but like you know there's only so so many people to like go and fill all the restaurants. But the thing is that now pretty much any restaurant in Bangkok has a great vegan menu like regular restaurants and I you know that was not the case like even like 3 years ago. >> No, 2023 it was not the case for me. So that's been interesting because if you have like a group of, you know, 10 friends and one of them is plant-based, generally they'll be like, "Where are we going? Let's go somewhere with both, you know, something for everyone." All plant-based. So that that's interesting been interesting to watch. Definitely. >> Yeah. And it'll be interesting to see if they start growing because of the people wanting to do that. I have a load of of friends that are not vegan that eat vegan when they're not well, when they're feeling heavy. like it's just something they go towards. >> Uh yeah, I don't know how you say it. G A G >> G. Yeah. >> I mean, two Michelin stars. She does a vegan tasting menu. >> Mhm. >> You know, >> all of the I think all of the Michelin starred restaurants do or most of them anyway. >> Yeah. >> Mhm. And they do an incredible job. Like they're delicious that I've experienced. >> Okay. Have do you go out? Have you tried G? >> I haven't tried Ga Palma. Um like amazing. Okay. Plant-based plant-based menu tastes. >> Yeah. And I feel like there's some Michelin stars like on the rise too. Um I personally canesh >> the cat's over there. Chef um I can't remember. I just spoke with him. They had damage. They had to close down and um he let me crawl through all his food lab anywhere. You know, they have like a um a separator that they use from blood and centrifuge >> that they play around with to like get like distilled like um mushroom and stuff like I mean those cats are having fun. >> I know. And um I think their food is is on the up and up. When you're looking at it that playful and that excited. >> Mhm. >> I think a Michelin star is in their future for sure. So I think it's an exciting time in Bangkok. I think I'm one of the first people to like cover it, you know, when it's um the vegan scene and stuff like that. But I'll be coming back again and again because I think it's in that exciting phase where it goes from this to just, >> you know, where it's the plant-based comes alive and you're going to be an OG in that movement. >> So, that's going to be exciting. Yeah. Your um your auto bio is going to get a thick chapter right around now and I can't wait. Do you speak Thai? Do you? Yeah. Why wouldn't you? Did you go to an international school or a local school? International. I have two friends, new friends that are calling them friends. What's up? Um I like that word darling. They have they own um Kind Cafe and um Chopsticks and Beetroot. Those cats. Champagne. Um and um Cherry, which is what I'm calling her. She told him to call her that. Everyone's like, "That's fine." I'm like, "Fine, it could work." >> And being those three, uh, they were talking to me about the crazy expense of I don't have younger children. I have older children. Um, but school is always a crazy expense. And they said international schools here are like, she's like, "It's cheaper for me to get a visa to go racer than the United States." >> And it's ridiculous. >> Is it? >> I feel like it's kind of, you know, your only option. >> Yeah. >> Kind of. Did you love your school? Because it's got to be amazing if it's going to be that crazy. >> I did. Yeah. I had the best time. I mean, when I was little, so we grew up in Pia, my brother and I. Um, which when we were growing up there years ago, um, where we grew up, it was like a little dirt road, which is now like past hotels and high-rise buildings. So, when we were there, it was like trees. We were barefoot. My mom would be like, "Bye." In the morning, we go run around the beach and like build forts and find things and bring animals home. Like wild. >> And I went to story school. Um >> love that. That's so us. >> Mhm. And then when I turned I think when I went into middle school, I guess when I what is that like 12? >> Then we were moved to a like a British international school. >> Yeah. And then you know it took some adjusting definitely you know from Montasuri to like yeah rich but they're known for it for what they do. >> I was like can I just walk around barefoot? They're like absolutely not. [Music] >> I love your decor. It's It's so bohemian and it's also like it feels tie and there's just a lot of different influences that work really well. Is this all you or did you work with a design team? No, it's all me. Wow. 100% me. So, you've been dreaming this up for a while. It's funny. It just I don't know. It just kind of happened. Like I so I you know I put in the walls, the windows, the floors, like every single thing, every tile in the house, every like every bit of electrical wiring. Like I learned so much. I had never done anything like that. I didn't know there was so many different types of windows. >> Um but the house just kind of happened. There wasn't really a plan. I kind of knew what the layout was going to look like. And then once we started building, I was like, "Okay, I want the walls to be this color. Oh, I need a table for over there. And I just go to like the flea market and then there's >> I mean it's awesome. You know, you have an eye. Like nobody needs to tell you that. The horse is stunning. >> I I get from my dad. Actually, >> um my mother like has an affinity for old carousel horses, wooden ones from like the 1800s. >> And this reminds me of that. It's stunning. And it should be right where it is. If you move it, I will discourage you. Sometimes people try to sit on it and I'm like, "Stop." >> No. No. I would not let them. >> No. >> But um all of your pieces it just goes really well. There's like there's an elegance but also like a familiarity with it. Like even the um the sofas paired with I know that like a lot of people struggle with whether or not to do it, but there is there's that comfortable but also kind of like elevating like you said, could be a date night, could be a group of friends, you know? It's that vibe that I really um I think you really nailed. I want to go back to a quick thing about communication and education because I think it's a big thing when you have a cultural as well as a genre specific divide in the food industry or any industry for that matter. And you said the difficulty with sometimes with kitchen staff is the vegan restaurant. They're like, I don't know. I don't know how to do that. I've been cooking meat since I was two with my mom. Um, I've talked to a lot of vegan chefs in Thailand that are like, "A large part of what I do when I on board people is educate." You know, we'll talk about why you're looking at things that way, what you're doing with the vegetable, why the vegetable just became the main and the main focus and will remain that way. You know, those kinds of things. Do you have like an educational onboarding system that you do? >> Um, a little bit. >> It's kind of informal. You're like, "No, it's just indoctrination." >> It is. I would say the way Yeah. the way that we have our team here. Whenever we have new people, we kind of like we'll sit down and we'll all have a glass of wine together. >> Um, and we'll talk about, you know, the menus, the ingredients that we use, where we get them from, and why. Um, but I think it's funny. A lot of people, everyone who works here actually found us. Um, and they come rough to be famous. >> No, no, no. I don't think it's that. That's not um >> No, I got you. It makes sense. Everyone's talking about you. There's no way you can't know that. >> No, no, that's not how I meant it. I just meant like I feel like in my life and with the restaurant, everything just kind of happens. I'm not a huge planner. Um, and I don't know, things just kind of like happen and we're like this house like everything and the team too. And it's kind of funny and like things just kind of end up like jelling together. When you have a work ethic like yours, that's absolutely true. But from the sound of what you've gone through for the past 2 or 3 years, you know, hard work, like you know the floor beneath your feet. >> Oh my gosh. >> So therein you're like, I don't plan that much. Like woman, you work hard, you know? And so that kind of makes up for the whole things aren't just falling upon you like >> I think I'm not explaining it though. You're like, I I don't have a spreadsheet of everything that I'm going to do. And so, like, what's your 5year plan? Like, if you had asked me 5 years ago what my plan would have been for 2025, >> it might be a mistake for someone like you because it's working out very well not to have a 5-year plan. You know, this is an incredible success. This is your darling, right? >> It is. It's my baby. um some of the best moments of my life and I'm not going to lie some of the worst moments of my life in this place. Um nothing has been easy that's for sure. >> Um so that's yeah when I said like things just kind of happen I don't mean like everything's amazing and everything just happens and >> no no I'm not suggesting you are saying that at all. I I I hear your gratitude for the space for your work for everything. But it's just funny when I hear someone who's like, "I don't know. I'm not very organized." And I'm like, "Look around." Yes, you are. >> Just not in what you perceive to be like the ultimate organization person. I get it. I know you don't know what color socks you're wearing tomorrow. I'm here for you. You know, but like this is a product that a restaurant across the world over every single country I've ever been to, and there's quite a few. It is no small endeavor. It's not. >> It is major. And there are so moving so many moving parts with street vendors who have a cart. There are a million moving parts. And everyone who thinks about opening one usually stops after they do the research as to what's required. >> You know, the books, >> the accounting, the vendors, everything. It's not just like, I think I'm going to make some delicious vegan food and have some fun. It is like crazy intense, >> you know? >> Yeah. I think I was a little underprepared to be honest with you. Like >> better that probably because if you knew, would you really have done it? >> If I knew probably not. >> Yeah. I don't know. >> It's got to be a surprise. >> I I might have I think I would have but I probably would have done some things differently. And it's funny because my friends who have restaurants all told me like whatever you do, don't do it alone. And you know, I was like, you know, I've got this. And my mom says I would have to learn everything the hard way. And yes, here we are. I decided to do it all alone. Yeah. Like no partner, no investment. >> Is she here? Does she live in Thailand? >> She does. She lives in patio where I grew up. >> Does she come hang out here? >> Yeah. All the time. And she'll like rearrange all my furniture. She'll be like, >> "Um, I don't like this table here, so I'm just going to put it over there." And I'm like, "Mom, please don't touch it." And then I'll go upstairs to the office or something. I'll come back. Everything will be rearranged. Or there'll be like a new like lamp pot or candle or Yeah. little gift from my mother. >> Yeah. All the time. >> Do you So, you were largely raised here. You talk like me. You're from the States or you were born in the States. >> Yes. >> Um, what brought your family here? >> Um, my parents came over from my dad's work. My dad is in shipping. So, my parents met in Houston, got married, had me there, moved here for his work, and then he opened his own business. So, I think that's also where I kind of got that from that I wanted to work on myself. >> Yeah. >> It's addictive. >> My folks do it, too. >> Yeah. >> You can't kind of see any other way. >> No. >> The funny thing is though, you're like, I'll open my own business and I'll be the boss and I'll, you know, work when I want to and I won't work and when I don't want to. And then it's like, you know, you're like here 24/7. >> Yep. You, they own you >> cuz you're the life machine, you know? Nothing's happening without always something to do in the house like >> maintenance or earthquake damage. >> So when the earthquake happened, were you here? >> Yes. >> And >> Mhm. >> Earth house. >> Yes. >> Okay. >> Um yeah, my whole team went my morning team was here cuz it was on a Friday. >> Um and I don't know, I just sort of felt a little dizzy and I was like, you know, I had too much coffee, you know, haven't eaten anything yet. And I like walk in over there and I'm like, I don't feel so good. My team's like, us either. >> Then we noticed like everything started swinging. Like I have the the security camera footage of it, but like all the plants in the house started going like this. Everything started shaking. We run outside and like that building over there is making huge cracking noises. We thought everything was going to collapse. And it lasted a long time, too. We just felt like it. >> Thailand has no earthquakes. No, not ever. The Thai people are not like get in an archway like people from California. And this one goes running up 18 flights to rescue her cats >> in the middle of the earthquake. And the Armageddon she describes with like doorways are left open like shoes in the hallway. Like people are just fleeing for their lives. I just spoke with like three chefs this week that said I thought for sure it was the act. I was up 21 flights, you know, in my apartment and I thought, "All right, this is it. It's time to meet our maker. We all kind of thought that like standing out there, the swimming pool from the hotel across the road was like pouring over the roof and we were like, "Okay, >> well, nice meeting you." >> Thanks. >> It's been a great time together. >> Yeah, exactly. >> So, how quickly you came back in and I was talking to you before we started filming and you're you're pointing out cracks in the foundation and I said, "Did you build this place?" And you said, "Yeah." And I said, "Well, then those are very painful. That's a marred, you know, moment. That's a scratch on your child's leg. That's an issue. >> Yeah. And they're all over the house. >> Okay. And you know them cuz you know every inch of this place. >> I do know those legs. And Yeah. Um >> it seems like it held up really well. >> She did. I'm actually kind of surprised to be honest. >> Like 100%. I was like that's it cuz you know the bones are so old. >> Yes. And you've got glass. You're not sure how that's going to fair. I would just be like, I don't know what's wrong. >> Yeah. Um, but I mean, more or less everything seems all right. >> Cracks. Did you lose any glassware? Did anything at all? Amazing. >> I know. I mean, photos fell off the walls and stuff. Nothing broke. Um, except one of our old drain pipes in the garden, which is actually kind of a big positive. But, >> um, yeah, the old wastewater system, >> cuz it's like 70 years old. Concrete pipes. One of them. >> You don't want that breaking. >> Yeah. One of them is smashed. So >> that'll be an interesting repair process. A new a future education for you because it wasn't thorough enough. >> You get to learn about your 70-year-old sewage. >> I've been learning. >> I love that. >> So you're not a planner. We've established that. Not asking you to. This is not there. Let's just play like brainstorming, okay? >> Cuz chefs love that. and like let's just keep it creative. What do you think like the next year will hold? Like fixing the pipe >> number one, >> encouraging, maybe thinking more about the upstairs space. You're kind of still welcoming new ideas, collaborations, people coming in, doing things, using it for event spaces. What else do you see on like the 2025? >> Um, I mean, although I'm not a planner, I am a dreamer and I have loads of ideas for this space. um a lot of new projects we're working on. Um one of them is a a little organic farm in collaboration with a um a children's charity. >> So that's very exciting. And in Bangkok area >> and we have some ideas for like a dining experience in connection with that. >> Um also a wine bar in our space finally. Yes. >> What we've been wanting to do for ages. Um, we just need to figure out where we're going to put all of the like refrigerators from the store room. >> Ah, >> yeah. >> And electricity. >> Yeah, it's fully It's got all of its electricity already. Yeah, it's it's ready. Um, >> just like rearranging things a little bit, I guess. And then No, we have a lot of big ideas. >> Yeah, >> a lot of big ideas. >> Do you drive in Bangkok? >> I do not. The traffic here. >> No. And I'm I'm, you know, I'm from SoCal. if anyone was gonna drive, it was going to be me. And my friends are like, "Do you rent a car?" And I'm like, "No, I know I wouldn't die." And I wouldn't get in a wreck. It's all good. And this, like, they'd see this and be like, "Give her space. She does not know what she's doing." But, um, and I'm an excellent driver. I take a lot of pride in that. But, I don't know. I feel like I'd run even further behind. You know, I can leave an hour early with the Grab taxi and I'm still 10 minutes late everywhere I go. I just feel like if I was driving, I'd be like, "Is there a spot there?" like I just don't know if I'd be able to handle >> parking and everything. >> So, do you live close to everywhere you do or do you do BTS or are you just a taxi person? >> Um I live pretty close by. Sometimes after work I'll walk home walking to work. It's usually too hot. But it's like I'll bike motorbikes on motorbike taxis. So I'm just hop on a bike everywhere I go in >> a lot easier. >> And I feel like they know the road, you know? I feel like they own it. Like it's good. It's trustworthy. Yes. >> Like head out to the flower market which is like a 40minut motorbike ride but I love it. >> Put on my headphones. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Come back with like 20 kilos of flowers on the back of the bike and they help you carry it too. In Bali they'll take six bags of groceries and make it work. >> They do. Yeah. Sometimes I think I'm a little annoyed but for sure it is. It's peaceful too. It's exciting. You know, if you can like make sure that your driver is stable, not drunk, it's great. >> I know. You can just hang on and go. >> I know. >> Absolutely. >> Um, >> what is your favorite thing um coming into your restaurant every day? Like, is there something that you're like, I like it when I do this. I like this moment of this day. >> Um, there are a lot of moments I love here. Um, I love this house so much. I love the team. I love doing the flowers. So, every week we'll set up like a beautiful flower display. We'll open one of the pages in the book we have there and that will be like that will tell us what color the flowers are going to be for the week. >> Um, and I love doing that with my team and then we take photos and I don't know, it's hard to pick a moment. >> I just You're in love with all of it. >> I am in love with it. Yeah. >> Wonderful. Well, I'm gonna like leave you to your evening. Okay. >> Thank you so much. >> Thank you. It was super fun. >> I appreciate you. I appreciate all of your time. You've been so good. >> It's a lot to endure me. I know. And I spent a lot of time here, >> which I intended on after I was like, she has wine. I'm going to stay. >> Do you want to finish it? >> I love it. >> Thanks for listening to Thanks for listening to Borderless. I hope you enjoyed this conversation. If you like this episode, please subscribe so that you can continue to hear fascinating conversations as I continue to wander the globe. You can follow us on Instagram at borderless-podcast or head over to our website borderless-podcast.com for more info and updates. This episode was produced by Patricia Kathleen Productions. And a special thank you to the team that makes it all happen, Emma Baker, and Finn Wild. Wherever you are in the world, >> wherever you are in the world, I hope our conversation made you feel a little more seen and connected. >> Until next time. Until next time, take good care.