# High on Chai Koh Tao Thailand

Published: 2025-09-04

like a love note to your mother in your own menu. Has she been here? >> Uh, she's not been here. >> Does she know what your menu looks like? >> She knows. She knows my entire menu. Uh, she goes many times on a video call with my head chef. >> Oh, yeah. >> Yes. Like >> calls with mom. >> Yeah. Like it's extremely important like you know at least like uh once in 3 4 months like this video call happens. Earlier it used to be like once in a week. But then what she would be like talking to my chef about is how to make sure that like you know every kind of a food item is consistent in her house kitchen, home kitchen. Whereas what my chef has been instructed to grasp from it is the technique and how to commercialize the technique so that we can do it in a fast-paced environment like a restaurant kitchen. Right. >> Yeah. So, >> so he's towing that line between your mother like, "Here's how we preserve it and you're like, "Here's how we speed it up." >> Exactly. >> Um, I'm going to start putting all of my employees on calls with my mom. I think that's a great idea. I don't >> Hi, I'm Patricia Kathleen. I travel the world with a mic in hand and questions to ask. And this is where those conversations live. My guests and I get into everything. Work, identity, creativity, purpose. the big stuff, the messy stuff, and the stuff that actually matters. From alleyway chats to studio sitdowns, I bring you with me as I talk to chefs, scientists, artists, activists, whoever around me has a story worth hearing. Wherever you're listening from, welcome. I'm glad you're here. Now, let's get into it. >> Start again. My name is Jay Gandhi >> and uh I co-founded this restaurant uh in 2023 and uh I'm currently in charge of the kitchen operations and mainly I look after like you know what my customers want and provide them with that uh kind of food uh keeping authenticity at the very base of our principles. when you first came at your menu, >> what did you want to have on it? How did you decide that? >> Yeah, so uh mainly the idea of like opening this restaurant came out of like two things. One was lack of good quality Indian restaurants outside of India. And second was like to promote uh and educate people on the authenticity of the food because even though there's plenty of Indian restaurants outside of India, many of those do not have any authentic flavors because the food has been toned down to suit a foreign palette. uh so the difference that we are making over here like uh I work in the kitchen with my chef in order to curate like these uh like you know dishes and most of the dishes like you know we've kept exactly how they are supposed to be like how they are in India like sometimes people find my food oily or sometimes my people find my food too spicy but the reason why it is like that is because by nature it is supposed to be like that >> now going back to like you know the vegan options uh that are available. Uh most of uh the restaurants that you go to, let's say if it's not like you know if it's any other cuisine, >> uh you do find like vegan options. Uh but those options are sort of like you know designed to to be made into a vegan food or a vegan uh like preparation. >> Whereas most of the food that you see on my menu are vegan by nature. We don't change anything in it because by nature they are vegan. And uh I'll talk more about vegan food because of the segment of this podcast. >> But then uh when it comes to like you know any other like you know food let's say we look at the vegetarian curries also like all of those like you know uh with just a tweak of one ingredient could be turned into vegan and yet retain that like authenticity the taste and like you know make sure that the nutritional value that it's supposed to offer is still there. >> Yeah. So uh how we came up to curating the menu? Uh one was uh I would visit a lot of restaurants like you know outside of India. Uh being brought up in a vegetarian family all my life. uh it was very difficult for me to like you know find good vegetarian food when I started traveling >> and I would rely on Indian restaurants >> and I would just like you know 3day was my cut off period like after 3 days I would have to go to an Indian restaurant I need my spices >> it doesn't matter which one I have >> like whatever it is like I'll go and try so close to 15 years of traveling like you know gave me a lot of experience uh gave me a lot of chance to visit some very good restaurants uh all the way from like you know street side vendors to like Michelin starts and whatever I could pick up from everywhere like I try to blend it in and bring it here and offer it to the people of Kottow or people who are visiting Kota. >> What made you choose Kottow? >> So I came here first time 10 years ago and uh since then like I've been visiting Kottow every year except for co and we used to have one restaurant over here but I used to cook over here when I was just visiting here. Plus, uh, this island has like a great community vibe and again like it's getting a little commercialized right now. However, like it used to be a very nice secluded place and >> so that makes this particular island different. I would say uh many people like you know when they come to the restaurant sometimes like they they don't have enough cash or like the you know while traveling you forget and this has happened with me also. So they end up like you know requesting that like hey can we or the ATMs are not working or something like that small island problem. So they end up being in trouble. Uh they think that they are in trouble like they don't have cash. They had food already. And then I always tell them like there is literally like you know no reason to worry just come back tomorrow like you know. So you'll see many places over here wherein we put a lot of trust into people. >> Like you know people do like you know end up taking that as a very good feeling for themselves as opposed to how they may have been treated elsewhere. >> Sure. So that's what makes a difference that why this island is like >> and most people knew each other like we were probably 2,000 people here. >> So ideally like you know during the time of my cooking everyone appreciated like most of the dishes even though it was home cooking uh they they mentioned that like the day I want to open my restaurant I should probably open it and uh during co we used to have an Indian restaurant here that shut down. So I reached out to the owner of that restaurant asking her if she was going to open again or not. She said that she's moved on now. So that's was my entry point and that's when like I was like okay if I'm going to open somewhere like I'll start with Kota because it has a good blend of people coming in from every place in the world >> and later on like if I want to expand like I could just use this as my test ground and then based on the learning I can expand. >> Where would you go like would you go to the mainlands or Atani or would you go to Bangkok or just hit like Copan again just keep it close. So I just came back from Japan. Uh so there's definitely a few locations in Japan where I would want a high on chai to open. But then my locations I want to pick in a way wherein I do not already enter a market where there are other Indian restaurants even though I can bet that the food that we are promoting is much better but then I definitely don't want to like you know enter into a space where already something exists. So I always look for these smaller places where better work can be done rather than us being pressurized by the footfall of people and then just like delivering mediocre quality. >> Yeah. No, I get that. And I it sound I'm I'm hearing a return again and again about authenticity and quality >> in what you're doing and you're like listen if it was born to be greasy as an Indian dish it needs to stay that way. Yeah. like I'm not gonna alter it to meet the ethos of the environment which I adore and I'm wondering how much I can press against that with like my curiosity with you because there are things you I've spoken to a handful of vegan chefs in Thailand alone um that are from India >> and they speak a lot about like 90% of you know um like Indian dishes are are right kissing that line of vegan and it's like ghee or something like that and they're like you substitute it out like how much do you think you can change >> in a dish where until the point where you're saying uh-uh I'm not putting it on the menu if it doesn't look how it did back home. >> Yeah. Yeah. So, uh when it comes to authenticity like uh again going back to the dish that we not the dish but the beverage that we have in our name that is chai. Chai is Indian tea. >> Uh we can have so many substitute milk options uh in order to serve this particular chai. In fact, we serve masa we serve masala chai. The spice ground uh for the chai is actually done by my mom back home and we use that like so to retain that authenticity. So it's the same chai. >> Are you putting the ginger in with the chai spice too? Yeah. >> So >> so good. >> It's the same chai that I've been having in my house for more than 30 years, you know. >> And I want to make sure that like it stay tastes the same. Now the authentic authenticity is maintained by uh like you know having my mom make the spice mix but then I also don't like you know uh switch to like other milk options. Many people have suggested me but it would really not taste like chai. It would really not taste like that Indian tea that the entire country of billion people like you know have as the first sip in the morning when they wake up. >> So hence like I do not change anything over there. But also given that uh like there are plenty of other options uh uh in terms of like let's say like turning a vegetarian dish into a vegan dish like uh just by not using ghee which is like a very uh authentic flavor to like many of the Indian dishes >> and you were saying earlier like this it's like the smokiness correct you're like but I can get that >> true. So sometimes let's say if you talk about biryani in in our biryani options uh we have vegetarian biryani which is also vegan. >> Now the only difference between these two is the ghee that is used and the raita sauce that we serve on the side. >> Uh raita is like an accompiment that goes on the side made with yogurt. So in order to turn that into vegan we don't use ghee but we also bring that smokiness by using uh sunflower oil and we use charcoal a burning charcoal to give it that dum. It's called dum uh which gives that smoky flavor to the biryani. And then we do not substitute the yogurt sauce with anything else. Rather we have like a wide range of sauces >> which is uh either made of like >> there. So we have this. This is a little savory. It's made of coriander and mint. >> Uh then we've got pickles. All of the sauces are vegan over here. >> Uh the pickles are a little pungent in taste. And then we've got this tamarind and dates for people who want like a little tanginess. >> Those are the best. >> So yeah, uh ideally like you know a mixture and mix and match of all of these sauces >> like ends up making your food like even more flavorful than it already is. >> Yeah. >> There's interesting new things too that like there's like um sauces and things that are sides that are vegan that I never realized. So Indian cuisine is varies wildly but traditionally northern versus southern influences are where like people divide the line. A lot of people talk about central >> but most chefs are like are they northern or southern Indian? That's where you're going to get the specific flavors. So where is your family from? And does your mom really make the chai mixture that you use here? >> Yeah. So my family is from central west. Uh I'm from Gujarat. I grew up in Gujarat and uh to answer your second question, yes, my mom really makes the chai mixture that we get here. >> And you only serve it with cow milk. You won't do oat milk or anything else cuz you're like the authenticity. >> Authenticity in terms of taste, you know, because it's not only how see chai again varies in flavor and everybody in India like would like chai in a specific way which suits their taste palette. But I am over here like putting on my menu that I want people to have the chai that I've been having for 35 years. >> I get you. And I think that we need to retain a sense of tradition because there's so much fusion happening. It's like what is truly authentic, you know, to Indian cuisine >> is crucial. Um so and I like the idea that you know you're going with notions that there's already naturally vegan things and so you can just bring those straight up onto the table and things like that. Um, what's your favorite thing that you put on the menu? Like when you were like that has to be on the menu. >> So, uh, there's a few. Uh, in fact, the story behind this menu is like, uh, most of the things that you see on the menu are, uh, the foods that me and my partner like to eat. >> Yep. Of course. Right. Why would you serve something you didn't like? >> So, like, you know, initially when I moved to Kota, like I would eat Thai food a lot, >> but uh, again, I started cooking my own food. But then like after a point in time I would need a break from Thai food and then like you know going back to like vegetarian or vegan restaurants like not only in Kottow but like many other places. Uh I kind of started having a feeling that the flavors are a little bland. >> But that was also because like people were making a certain food to be vegan rather than it being vegan by nature you know. Yeah. >> Hence like we sort of like you know landed up on the idea that like let's try to like serve our entire like customer base and like most of the people like who come to the restaurant like let's say people who are practicing yoga and all like they are also like vegans they've turned into vegans. So many of them like you know request for like having new things on the menu. So this mushroom chhattinal which I have very boldly put under vegetarian curries but it is by nature vegan and uh that is one thing that I really really like. Uh the flavors uh it is you can say like the chhattinad is a sauce from south of India. >> Yeah. >> So again like you know I come from the central part but then uh if you ask me about what is my favorite type of cuisine in Indian like it is southern Indian. Everyone says that >> it is delicious because of the options that it gives and the flavors that it have. >> Uh uh another thing that I really like uh if it comes to vegan is dal tarka obviously >> uh it's comfort food because >> I love it. It's like you know let's say you had like a really tiring day you go back home uh from your 9 to5 or whatever it is and then like as soon as like that dal tka and like the jeera rice hits you it's straight bed after that like nothing else like so this is how like you know we sort of try to like convince our head that okay like you know whatever has happened today but like this food has like you know made my belly full and I'm more mindful now to just like be in a state of relaxation. Well, so both of those that you mentioned, for me, this spice flavor, I mean, really, all of Indian cooking, right? But like these two, like if the spices are not spot-on, they taste like wildly different dishes. Like I've had them in two different restaurants and been like, "That wasn't the same thing." >> Yeah. >> So, where do you get your spices from? Do you find them locally? Do you have them imported? And do you find that they vary if you change up your source? This is a very nice question because I always talk to my like you know people who I'm interacting with in the restaurant like when they appreciate the food here like I give them the secret recipe why it is so authentic >> because initially when we started uh I used to like just source things from here and by here I mean like within this country like I would get things from the suppliers in Bangkok and all. >> Yeah. But then uh later on I realized just by like paying attention to like small little things that uh the temperature very widely affects uh the quality of the ingredients and uh if the ingredients are not quality controlled from the start itself like you know it can lead to a very very different tasting food item. >> Yeah. uh if I talk about like jeera which is cumin seeds >> uh most of the jeera that I would source from here would not uh crackle at all in the hot oil which it is supposed to but because of the moisture content in it >> like it would not crackle. So I started experimenting with like bringing jeera from back home like from India and then like you know putting those things together and then like trying to do a mix and match and eventually we came to a conclusion that like not only this cumin seeds but most of our spices are to be imported from the very source itself and then we also get everything packaged in a certain way so that like it comes with that temperature control and uh sorry the moisture control >> and we kind of like you know make use of things in batches so that like it does not like you of this uh the the weather over here does not affect the spices that we use. >> Right? >> So that's one thing. Second thing is like when it comes to prepackaged spice mixes like for example you get all kinds of different uh like masalas we call it a mixture of spice is called masala. So you get like let's say if you want to cook biryani at home you get this biryani masala. If you want to make chana masala at home you get this spice mixture already. Many of those are meant to cater a mass audience. >> Yeah. >> So even though there is quality control in there, I'm not doubting that at all. Like it really does not have that like you know richness uh that freshly uh you know ground spice mix or a freshly roasted spice mix would bring. >> Yeah. >> So we try to do everything in house. >> So that's the difference that we make. >> Absolutely. Well, and so many things in Indian cuisine stew for such a long time, you know, it's just going to bring out >> the difference. >> True. >> Uh, one thing uh that I always like to point out is like let's say if you're eating something that's Italian or let's say if you're eating something that's Thai, like most of these recipes come with like a minimum of like 7 to eight or like a maximum of 10 ingredients and to curate a dish. Whereas pick any of the uh recipes from an Indian cuisine like there's minimum of like 20 to 30 ingredients that go in it >> you know like even when it comes to the spice blend >> and maintaining that level of mixture like you know it becomes very difficult sometimes but somehow like for generations that country has been doing it and thankfully because of the knowledge passed on to us by our ancestors like we are able to do the same and serve people in the authentic way. >> Absolutely. I want to compare because we're in Thai Thailand. I mean, we're in the Gulf of Thailand on a tiny island, but it's Thai. >> And both of those cuisines, at least where I'm from in the USA. >> Um, Thai and Indian get compared a lot for their their spice levels, their heat. >> Got it. >> And everyone talks about them being similar. To me, they're wildly different. Thai spice and Indian spice are just completely different universes. How would you summarize that yourself as a chef with the pallet? Because you live in Thailand and you come from India cooking Indian food. >> Yeah. So uh for this like many a times like I warn not warn but then I educate my customers on this that uh especially Thai people cuz many times when people Thai people come here they come with an idea that they can handle like you know spicy food. >> But the difference I see is like Thai spiciness comes only from chili peppers. >> Yeah. >> Whereas uh Indian spiciness which is actually heat. The heat level comes from variety of ingredients like you know right from like the black cardamom itself like you know which someone might think a cardamom how can it give you that heat level but then like if not mixed in the right way like it can like increase the body heat a lot. So I have to educate people on this that like you know the the the spiciness that we think of which is just your chili pepper heat >> versus the spiciness that Indian food brings in which has like 17 ingredients mixed in a way which just makes the entire food like you know really hot. >> Yes. >> To eat. So like these are the differences that I noticed primarily. Yeah. >> I don't have any formal education in terms of uh like you know cooking or like anything like that. It just came out of a hobby. >> Generations of people. >> Yeah. And missing home-cooked food you know. So like most of it like came out of that. And ideally like you know I would like to say that this is the primary difference that I see. There may be like you know some differences like which I'm not aware of but I just want to say this one. >> Yeah. the Ayurvedic influences you know behind Indian cooking and what I mean by that you know that's a big term for me to be throwing around yeah but like a lot of how spices in general in fact not just food but spices >> when combined with certain foods aid properties of health within the body >> that's something that's like common place in Indian cooking you know making sure that you have pepper attached to something else so the body can absorb it every Indian chef I talk to is like everyone knows that. I'm like nobody knows that. >> So the influence of connecting the body with the food beyond just the the taste buds >> feels like it's also part of Indian cooking. Yeah. >> Do you feel like you were raised with that awareness as well? >> So I'll give you an example of this. Uh I moved out of my househ. But uh as soon as I moved out like the first thing that I miss that every kid misses is my home-cooked food. Everyone misses this. No one likes to accept it but like it's just like the food that was cooked in your house is something that always like you know like gives you that comfort level and confidence level like to go out and like win the world. So every time I used to fall sick before going for like any kind of a medicine like or or a doctor or something like you know I would try to analyze like what is wrong with me most of the times is just like general sickness it's not like a chronic disease >> right >> so most of the times like these general sicknesses I would try to cure first with like what food am I missing >> and what will my body really really like at this point in time >> and then like get on a all with my mom. That's why like I give great importance to my menu itself. I write eat well is what our mothers preach. I've written it right there. So I I give great importance to her knowledge of things that she has been like treating me with food first and then medicines with most of these general illnesses and that's how like you know like mostly like I feel like our food affects our body in this way. I don't have like the medical knowledge of it but then again like you know going to the basics of like using a lot of turmeric in the in our cooking a whole lot of like you know spice blends which kind of like cure your basic like sinuses sicknesses and all >> it's it's just like it has been proven like so ayurvea has great importance in Indian cooking since generations I believe >> yeah and it makes self-taught chuts from India like a different kind of chef anyway you know it's just a connection of understanding and applying food to that >> is a very different thing. I think it's what's required for the amount of patience with the spice blends and the everything that's going on. It's like it's all going to be worth it. It's totally attached to the human body, you know? >> So, I agree with that. What was um like what went on your menu that maybe your co-founder wanted on there that you're like, I don't really want it on there. Like, do you have like a prickly point on here that you're like, I don't really love it. So uh again the story of opening this restaurant like and how it's working it's just like uh surprising to many because none of us like you know not me nor my partner have any background in uh in cooking or hospitality or anything like that. My background I've given 15 years of my life to advertising >> and he's a DJ >> a DJ and an advertiser get together like let's start a restaurant >> and we are like okay what do we do he's Indian as well we both kind of grew up together back home >> but then like when we started traveling together we reached Kota together as well so that's the entire story like you know we are very connected to this place and uh yeah like uh so we started the restaurant together and uh thankfully he eats meat Uh for me like I've tried to like you know it's something psychological. I don't know how but like it's just like I just cannot have more than a bite but again working in the kitchen I definitely have to like you know go for trying out the sauces and the bases. So I don't restrict myself to that. But then most of the trials of like the meat dishes goes to him like and also like many of our friends over here like you know they try it out and then we kind of decide whether we should put something on the menu or not. >> Uh we've never really >> That being said, come on let's talk about the tea. It can't all be roses and berries. Like what what pressure points have been coming up here? Any >> uh pressure points? Uh >> like do you let the marketing speak to the menu curation and editing? Like if something just isn't making her cut, do you slice her? >> Uh yes. Like so uh again like you know something that is like uh so I'm my background is analytics. >> So again we are very heavy on like you know understanding things based on numbers but then uh again like you know I don't want to make this just a business. I want to keep this as a passion project as it started. Sure. >> So there are certain things for example most of the lamb that we have like you know Thailand imports most of its lamb >> and uh it's a very expensive dish. So, but then I do want this on the menu and uh my partner definitely wants that on the menu because it's a very good variety of dishes especially mutton jaw coming from Kashmir and mutton ka which probably was like you know brought in by like the Mughal emperors or like you know >> time that that particular time of India like and it originated into a ka recipe >> which is minced meat. So, I want to keep this even though like it does not really make profits for us or >> it's an homage to history. You're such a sentimentalist. I love it. You're going to lose money on it, but not too much cuz you're smart. I know you're like I can afford it. It's all good. >> I was taught in the beginning like no naan always has to have some kind of butter. Then everyone's like no it doesn't. It just has to have some kind of fat. And then um I had roti one time and everyone said roti is always vegan or vegetarian and then someone else I met said no it's not. >> So it's like apparently there's a million ways and the reason why I ask is because I find these like premise of like the French baguette you know the Italian dough and and bread like everyone has this foundation of like whatever it's your bread it's your cracker it's your naan it's your roti. So >> for you what are the key components of those two things and what's what's being served here? >> Yeah. So again like you know having some kind of fat or like you know the oil content is required >> just so that like you know we can leave in the dough >> and then when it gets cooked like uh there are certain breads which are leave-in breads there are certain breads which are flat breads and uh we can't really avoid like that we can't really avoid the fact that like you know some kind of oil or fat is to be used but uh when it comes to naan like again with all of my traveling around the Uh I've noticed this that there are certain places where they use yeast to raise the naan. There are certain places where they use uh yogurt or curd >> to make it fluffier or softer. >> Whereas what we do is that we don't use any of that. But then we do use butter on our naan. But if people want a vegan naan, it's also possible because we just don't put butter or any oil or any kind of ghee on it. >> So someone comes in and they're like, "Can I get some non-vegan?" You're like, "Not a problem." >> Exactly. in the moment. >> Yeah. Because it is vegan by nature. >> So you're cooking it as they order it. >> Yeah. >> Gotcha. >> And uh also when it comes to like uh roti, roti, I think someone might have told you that it's not vegan because roti all of us Indians are used to having with ghee on top. >> I know just the drizzle on the very end always. Yeah. >> And uh roti is cooked in our homes in our houses. Uh in some areas they are called chapati. In some areas like where I come from is called roti. Hence like some people using a different language end up calling it roti but it's the one that puffs up nicely on the griddle and then we apply ghee on it. So this is why it could be nonvegan but the roties that we cook are cooked in a tandoor which is your clay pot. >> Yeah. >> And most of the roties which are called tanduri roties are vegan by nature unless you apply ghee or butter on it. M. >> So we can just add some uh any kind of vegetable oil or like you know any kind of oil rather than like using ghee into the dough making and then it just works as a as a >> it's the best cracker in the world. I love like Indian menus like I can just hang out with the words and the food all day. But roti and these three I'm good >> like I can just go to town. One thing that you'll notice on our menu which not a lot of uh people have on their menus, a lot of Indian a lot of Indian restaurants don't have is the Kerala parota. Kerala para again it's by nature it's vegan like there's nothing that we change in it. For example the tandoori roti and the naan like we apply bread we apply butter or ghee on it and if people want to make it vegan we can do that right that's an amendment that we do. However Kerala para is by nature vegan. It's a very nice fluffy bread. Uh leave also but then cooked on a griddle and oil is used in in making those layers for that bread. >> Why aren't people You're right. I don't see that hardly anywhere. Why not? >> Because not a lot of people know how to make it right. >> Their ignorance is keeping them from putting it on. >> I'm very lucky and I give all the credit to my chef that he is able to make it right. Hence, I put it >> before we put that on the menu. I made a trial and then we did the testing for more than seven times. Every day I would eat something with a Kerala parota that he would make for me and then like we would go towards like the nitty-g gritties of it as to what is wrong, what is right and made a final version. >> I mean everyone's going to come get this now. Get ready for the rush. Seriously, you just put some backbone in that. I'm going to do nothing but eat that while I'm here. >> Absolutely. Here's my question to you before I let you go on on the actual menu. >> You get and we we were talking about this before we started rolling, so I want to revisit it. You get a lot of love >> in the vegan community >> and vegans, not just vegetarians. People are like, "I don't order vegan. I had this guy's vegan stuff. Best Indian of my life." There's three self-p profofessed I don't know that to be true but Google reviews I don't know anyone's going on there saying I'm Indian who's not necessarily and they claim that your food is so amazing. Do you believe it's because you're driven earnest lucky or is it because of this lens that you keep saying where you're like I keep it authentic. >> I I strongly believe that uh because we keep it authentic. Hence like uh I always like appreciate when we get uh feedback from Indian people because again going to the primary reason why we started this restaurant is because of lack of good Indian food outside of India. So when they are traveling and when they end up like you know into a restaurant and like truly appreciate it and uh I see the happiness on their faces you know like when they are leaving the restaurant like they would just they would constantly be talking about it as to how much they were missing this and it reminds me of my days when I was traveling >> and when I was like literally looking for what they are always looking for. So I am here to provide not only to them but to everyone in the world like who are supposed to have the food the way it is supposed to be but also at the same time like I would give great credit to my chef cuz many a times it happens so that like chefs have their own way of working people who have been working professionally in a kitchen and they would not tweak things just because somebody is asking to but then over here like you know I'm very lucky that my chef would not tweak anything at all in order to accommodate a person's uh like you know suggestions but but we always make sure that the dietary restrictions are taken care of. Mhm. >> So, in order to make sure that like the dietary restrictions are taken care of, uh cuz there's not only like you know vegan people, we get a lot of people who are with lactose intolerance, there's gluten that is an issue. >> Uh there's people who only eat halal food, you know, like so teaching all of this to somebody who's coming from a different background in India like it becomes very difficult. But like thankfully most of these things we tackled by just providing with the right options rather than alternating or like tweaking things into a particular authenticity of a dish. >> Right. >> Yeah. >> How uh how long have you been open? >> We opened on 15th of January 2023. >> 23. >> Yeah. Two years. >> So it's been over two years. A little over two years. >> And how's the ride so far? I mean you're still in infancy. >> Yeah. like it definitely like you know it's it's it's been really good. The response has been good I would say. Uh sometimes we get very busy but I'm also like you know very casual with my guests plus like the kind of people who come here like most of them are like traveling they are on a tropical island. Uh they do not like you know expect a lot but in the end like when they get like something that is so good >> like they just kind of like leave with an awe or surprise. I know it's hard sometimes to get tourists to leave reviews. You know, most people are like, "Google reviews come from people who are like living down the street from you and they go to you for like a year and they're finally like, I'll write you a review." >> And you're getting hundreds of reviews from people that are like they have no stake in your game. >> You know, they could like bounce and never have it happen again. And they love you. from coming back from advertising as my background like you know like this used to be one of the products that we would promote to our clients that like you need online reputation management you need good reviews and all but then like when I started my company over here my restaurant >> I was very strict towards this that like I do not want to do any kind of marketing >> and I don't want to do any advertising >> for the first two years exactly I was like let our product do the marketing first >> and then like if there's something that is required had in order to sustain the business. I have an expertise in it given that I've given 15 years to that industry. But all of the reviews started coming in like people I know for a fact that like you know people make an effort to leave a review when the experience is bad >> you know that's when like they are very driven that like okay like you know because I could not tell somebody I'm going to write a bad review when really good reviews started coming in and that to detailed reviews like you know they they are taking the time to write down an entire story of their experience >> and no they're not small words like they you know especially yours like you get paragraphs it's not just good food you know it's getting like sentences that's like a win >> exactly so when that started happening like you know I gave it a cap I was like okay until like we reached like 400 or 500 reviews we're not going to promote it very recently we've just started to put up like these QR codes on like small little places in the restaurant where if people want to leave a review they can just scan the code and leave a review but we don't really like you know push people to do that. I want to continue this like organic way of like you know growing the reviews cuz those are like the best feedback for me. Sometimes people after eating the food they cannot like you know tell you that something was off or something was bad >> that they can mention when they are not in front of you you know when they are like alone at home or something. >> Yeah absolutely. >> I want to know um you have like a love note to your mother in your own menu. Has she been here? Uh, she's not been here. >> Does she know what your menu looks like? >> She knows. She knows my entire menu. Uh, she goes many times on a video call with my head chef. >> Oh, yeah. >> Yes. Like >> calls with mom. >> Yeah. Like it's extremely important like you know at least like uh once in 3 4 months like this video call happens. Earlier it used to be like once in a week. But then what she would be like talking to my chef about is how to make sure that like you know every kind of a food item is consistent in her house kitchen, home kitchen. Whereas what my chef has been instructed to grasp from it is the technique and how to commercialize the technique so that we can do it in a fast-paced environment like a restaurant kitchen. Right. >> Yeah. So, >> so he's towing that line between your mother like, "Here's how we preserve it and you're like, "Here's how we speed it up." >> Exactly. >> Um, I'm going to start putting all of my employees on calls with my mom. I think that's a great idea. I don't think this just has to do with an Indian kitchen and a mother. I think it has a lot to do with like they deserve it. That's wonderful. I love that. All right. Well, let's try some food. Let's do this, man. Yes. So here we go. Walk us through panipuri. uh street vendors in India they definitely like you know try to like match up with your pace of eating it and it's always a competition because people many of like my friends like who I go out with they ended up having like 50 to 60 at a time which does not categorize it as a snack but just becomes a full full-blown dinner meal >> but over here we serve six pieces which I feel is good enough like if you're sharing like It's more than enough. >> Yeah. >> And uh we serve it with uh two kinds of water. >> Uh water I would say like uh it's it's just mixed with different herbs and spices. >> So the green one being like on a spicier note and the red one being tangy and sweet. >> Uh it's always good to have your own mix and match. How you eat this? I believe you've had this before, but I'll just quickly explain it. >> Sure. >> How you eat it is like you fill it up to the brim with your choice of water. Mix it up as well and then have it in one go and let that thing explode in your mouth because that's when all the flavors are felt on the planet. >> And this is when like you know it activates your senses because this green water is very makes you very fresh. >> Yes. >> Because of the use of mint in it, >> right? Uh would you like to go first? >> Sure. Is it So do you do I want to know what kind of I'm going to show you what my mixture is then you show me what yours is. >> Um >> there. Um >> do you uh do you consider this to be a street food? Like would you ever see this in a beautiful restaurant in India do you think? >> So uh I've been to like you know several restaurants like in India as well as uh >> as well as like outside of India where panipuri like you know is served but in a very different way. For example like uh we we have a popular restaurant called Gagan. uh gagan is considered to be like you know number one now in uh at least in the Asian region >> uh it has a tasting menu whereas uh >> rot row it's okay >> uh on their menu like you know when it comes to like having pani puri they make it in a very different way uh I don't have a video for it but when I went there like he made this puri base and he made like small noodles into it making it a bird's nest and And he made a tiny white chocolate egg filled with this spicy water. >> White chocolate egg. >> White chocolate egg. So it was a bird's nest with an egg on it >> inside. >> Yeah. But then the white chocolate giving the sweet flavor and the spicy water inside. >> Who did this? >> Gagan. >> Yeah. Okay. >> Gagan. Yeah. >> And you had it? >> I had it. Yeah. >> What did you think? Yeah. >> It was It was It was amazing, you know, like the way >> emotionally beautiful. the way panipuri was presented because it's still the same ingredients. It is the exact same ingredients what you are eating in a traditional pani puri. This is how it is in India. You just got to really artistic with it. >> Very artistic. And the way he cured it like you know it was just like magical for me. >> See I could eat this all day. >> Couldn't you? >> What is this called again? >> Yeah. So it's not on the menu. On the menu we have it as pork chic kebabs. But uh this is something that I wanted to make just for you so that you get a little bit of like you know flavors of chic kebabs. So this is a vegan chic kebab. >> Okay. >> And uh >> you need to put this on the menu. >> I will put it later. >> This is so good. But you can take it and go. Yeah. >> It's like a And so how do you get the form? Are you rolling it? >> So uh we have like a skewer. Mhm. >> Uh the it's very important the shape of that skewer because uh clay pot is something in which like the skewer goes like you know uh horizontally. So we use like the flour for binding and then like you know we just like try and like stick it up and then it goes into the >> on a skewer. So >> on a skewer. Yeah. >> And then you're putting it in the oven. >> Yeah. But the shape of the skewer is square. >> It's not round. Yeah. So it from the inside it holds properly. >> Wow. >> I would thought Disney would have had like a mold and then just put them on a tray. No. >> So it goes on like a on a skewer but really long skewers, you know, like it goes on that and that goes in the oven at 400° and then from that point like it's >> Let's see you. What are you going to do to it? >> Yeah. So here that's the I was explaining about chart masala, >> right? >> Yeah. I'm going to do that to it as well. So this is the spice mix which adds like tanginess because of the presence of like raw powdered uh mangoes. >> Would you sprinkle this on top? >> Yeah, you can sprinkle that on top like you know. So when you do that like you know it just gives >> like this flavor to it wherein you don't even need any kind of sauce you know like you can just have it just like that. >> Yeah. And this is from the mango. >> It's raw mango and a lot of other ingredients. The >> M. >> Yeah. >> Oh my god. Do Do they >> Did you make that? >> Yeah. >> I could put that on popcorn. >> But that's going to be my new best friend. What is the name of it? You need to try this. This is insane. >> It's called chart masala. >> Chak masala. >> Yeah. >> Okay. I I know. I've bought it and it doesn't taste like that. >> But that's the difference. like it's the retaining the freshness because of uh like just making it fresh over here rather than having it packaged. But most of the chart masalas like they do they do have like >> what is this? >> Yeah. So this one is not something that I give out to everyone. >> Is it spicy? >> Uh it's a spicy sauce uh that I make uh sourcing some chilies from here. >> But then uh I always like give it out with a warning because even though not very spicy on the palette, it is hot for the body. So mindful as to how much you eat cuz these chilies that are used in it like you know are like I find them to be of that nature wherein they are so hot for the body >> later on. >> Yeah. [Music] >> It's not that spicy >> as as I said like not very spicy on the palette >> but hot for the body. So you won't feel the spice but you will start sweating afterwards you know. >> It's an internal sauna. >> Yeah. All right. What do you want to do next? >> Next up, we have on the menu is your vegan wrap. >> What's inside of it? >> So again, it has a similar patty like this and then like uh some use of fresh vegetables, some tomatoes and onions and uh like if we have to make it vegetarian, we'll make use of like you know some mayonnaise. But then like in this we use tomato ketchup. >> Nice. >> Yeah. To give it some flavor. >> What flavor are you carrying through? What kind of curry? What? >> So I can have this with uh the spicy sauce. Uh but then again that is just like you know to suit my palette. But then if we have with a mixture of these two sauces which is your coriander >> nice >> and coriander and tamarind. We mix these two together. This is one of the base Indian sauces like which which go with like you know every kind of food and then having it with like wraps are also we call it street food only. having it with this like you know it ends up giving you a good distinct flavor. >> That is really good. You really do know flavor. That's amazing. >> Thank you. >> Yeah. Thank you. No, it's so much better than a rap. >> You can't call it a wrap. We got to call Go back to Frankie. >> Go back to Frankie, >> you know, cuz like it's just it's more of like a what is a Frankie? >> It's at least going to ask the question because when I think of a rat >> Yeah. I think of everything wrong that was ever done to a burrito. >> Oh, no. >> You know, >> it's a very versatile sauce. Like, you know, just uh we call it damaka sauce, which means an explosion. >> It's got a lot of flavor. It's got a lot of notes. >> Yeah. >> It's not hogging the stage. >> Uh this sauce was like, you know, originated in Indo-Chinese cuisine. You can say like, you know, a lot of like Chinese food influence in the eastern side of India. >> Yeah. Uh and then they had to do something to make it like more authentic towards Indian taste palette. >> Yeah. >> And then they came up with something called as the shzwan sauce. >> Yeah. Okay. >> So they call it sichuan but it's actually s the sichuan chili chili peppers you know. >> So how did India get their hands on it? >> So India got into it like they made a sauce called Szwan sauce and then it used to be one of my favorite sauces back home but again lack of like Indo-Chinese cuisine outside of India. Yeah. >> So I ended up making my version of it. >> So the difference that we are making is we are using the chilies from here. We're not using the Sichuan peppers. >> Okay. >> We're using the chilies from here. >> And uh we tweaked the recipe a little bit and also like you know the content of oil in it is to preserve it for a longer period of time. >> Yeah. >> So it's not necessary that you are supposed to eat that oil but because of the use of like more oil like we are able to preserve it for a long period of time. >> Yeah. >> So good. So, do you think that your mom from um do you think she could video right now and look at that through the camera and see whether or not she would fix anything? >> So, I'll again give you a real life incident. >> In fact, like let me just show this to you. >> Yeah. >> You would think that I'm way too like, you know, connected to my mom, but then like, you know, we love uh like we learn everything from them, I would say. >> Mhm. >> And I always like to keep it that way. So because I live a little far away from where she is. >> Mhm. >> Like my way of connecting with her is via food because most of this is like everything that was passed on as a knowledge by her to me. >> Yeah. >> But one thing that I do to keep in touch with her every day is whatever I'm eating, >> I take I take a picture of that. >> I take a picture of that and that picture goes to her and in response she has to reply what I'm eating. So she tries to guess whatever I'm eating. So this is chana chart. >> I'm having this like so she'll write what is this? What is this? Everything. >> I love that. Does she ever get it wrong? >> Sometimes >> you've got a very very blessed culinary life. This is all going well and >> that's what we want. Like good food, good mood. >> Yeah, it's true. It's absolutely true. A best friend, co-founder, DJ. You got an okay life, man. It's working out for you. Yes. >> Lovely. Lovely. It was a pleasure meeting you. >> It was a pleasure. Thank you so much. It was actually just an amazing experience. >> Thanks for listening to Borderless. I hope you enjoyed this conversation. If you like this episode, please subscribe so that you can continue to hear fascinating conversations as I continue to wander the globe. You can follow us on Instagram at borderless-podcast or head over to our website borderless-podcast.com for more info and updates. This episode was produced by Patricia Kathleen Productions. And a special thank you to the team that makes it all happen, Charie Turn, Emma Baker, and Finn Wild. Wherever you are in the world, I hope our conversation made you feel a little more seen and connected. Until next time, take good care. [Music]