# Humble Beet Bangkok Thailand

Published: 2025-09-26

Yeah, we use a protein uh we use not kind of like mock meat but we use texture vegetable protein. >> So it's you know it's the old school protein based but anyway it's not too bad for >> it's not meat >> to compare to yeah to compare to m meat >> but anyhow like we know that this is still processed but we want it to be the journey of people who shift to a vegan plant-based you know just just take one step first. Yeah, you got to get them somehow, right? Vegan food can be delicious. >> Hi, I'm Patricia Kathleen. I travel the world with a mic in hand and questions to ask. And this is where those conversations live. My guests and I get into everything. Work, identity, creativity, purpose, the big stuff, the messy stuff, and the stuff that actually matters. From alleyway chats to studio sitdowns, I bring you with me as I talk to chefs, scientists, artists, activists, whoever around me has a story worth hearing. Wherever you're listening from, welcome. I'm glad you're here. Now, let's get into it. >> Yes, we are. Um, we're a small vegan femaleowned cafe and we all founded Kind Cafe First. It's it focuses mostly on whole foods and everything plant-based obviously, but whole foods. Nothing processed. >> Yeah. >> And as Chef Bay likes it herself like she she loves natural, all natural everything. So when was it started? >> Kind Cafe was 3 years ago. >> Yeah. Three years ago. >> CO or before CO? >> During CO? >> After. Yes. Okay. And who what was the inspiration and where did all of you meet >> online? Oh yeah online. Actually she started Thai cafe by herself >> and after that like when I come back from France that I you know like that I told you >> we met online. >> Yeah we met because they are influencer >> of community. Not really. >> She do the weekend matter page. I do the happy fit mommy page and >> and do vegan cuisine. So, we met online in the Instagram >> through the the vegan community online >> direct messaging. We slid into each other's DMs. >> Yeah, that's what we in person. >> Yeah, that's fantastic. They hopped on >> and so yeah, we got everything rolling and chef came in and made everything so much better and tastier and included included like 10 or more menus on the >> Yeah. >> to the restaurant. >> Wow. >> And then chopsticks came along. >> Okay. So that is kind cafe is um like I don't even know a new term was introduced to me recently like cloud cloud kitchens. So, it's only it's only delivered and that's and that's kind cafe right now. It's delivered. It's done. You can get on days before on grab and like order up, which I love because you can have that like put away. But it's a cloud kitchen >> and it's a set menu and that's all I'm So, let's move over to Chopsticks. When did that come up? >> How did we come on? >> A year maybe a year ago >> because the K buffet is like the health the healthy choice but >> it's not for everyone. Sorry, it's not for everyone. more like we need to to have fun on our food. Have something like >> Friday night. >> Yes. A night out. >> Even for us, we enjoy we occasionally enjoy chopsticks. >> Is it another cloud kitchen based at the same kitchen? >> Okay. It's all but it's it's kind of the more fun food. >> Yeah. The Friday night fun food, right? Okay. >> Let me explain briefly. At first, we have Kai Cafe. We have the open restaurant but we decide to close because we we move to Ecomay right area is in downtown >> and we plan to do so many things. So we shut down the the how do you say front restaurant the >> the dining the dining restaurant and we have the coffee chain which is now has two restaurant together. >> Okay. So you have the multiple choices is the like what is the cuisine for chopsticks versus kind >> you have wraps in the kind healthy whole food >> salad bowls. What is chopsticks focusing on? >> Just is >> American Chinese. American Chinese. That's what I'm assuming. But like >> pretty much Panda Express. >> Yeah. Vegan American. >> Broccoli Kungpow. >> Crowdleasers always going to win. People are always going to have for that in their life, right? No matter who you are, no matter what fitness, like people want to indulge occasionally. So that answers that. Now, let's get into Humble Beat. Mhm. This is super new. >> Probably like three two or three months ago. Yeah. Four months ago. Yeah. >> It's really pretty. That's >> You want to try? >> Yes. Which one should I What? Okay. Wait. Sophie's choice. Which one do I try? >> What's your favorite? What would you all recommend? >> Oh, depends. Do you like greens? Do you like fruity? Do you like >> I'm not sure there's anything I don't like. Like I I'm really into >> I got to try. >> I thought I didn't like to I thought I didn't like bananas and I came to Thailand and I love what you do to bananas. >> I love this. >> Well, this >> Well, this has to be the last one. >> I very strong. >> We want you to try everything. Okay. Well, maybe we'll bring What is all of your favorite? Like what's Tell me. You like this? The vitamin C. >> I like I like >> I like this. I like this one. >> Okay. >> I like the one. >> And this. >> Okay. >> And and this >> passion fruit. >> Yeah. >> That's gorgeous. What is this? Blue >> is the blue spider. >> Oh, spirulina. >> So pretty. >> And coconut. They're gorgeous. >> Glass. >> Just do everything cocktail. >> I I'm done. This is happening. They're gorgeous though. So this is a new endeavor. When did you start? >> Four months ago. >> About it. >> Wow. >> Four months ago. >> And you just got it up and going. Where are you positioning it? Do you deliver it with all of your with like the Kind Cafe umbrella? Is it is it on? Is it >> It's also on Grab right now, but originally we wanted to do completely online. Like people don't order through Grab. You can just directly contact us. And it's a three-day cleanse program. >> Okay. So you drink it's it's like a meal replacement. >> Perfect. So you do but with everything. It's not it's it's not a juice. It's a smoothie with all the fiber still in there. >> It's thicker. >> Very thick. Day one, you drink four bottles for like uh breakfast, lunch, snack, and dinner. >> Mhm. >> And then you feel great. It's when you're bloated or or whatever, you you ate too much sugar or sodium. You just come for a 3-day cleanse >> and then you stay for the for the taste. >> Yeah. >> And then now you just drink it as snacks. >> So, it's thicker. It's It feels like it's an answer to people that are scared of juice cleanses because this is going to be more in you. >> Have you done juice cleanses >> with the fiber? >> What's the difference? This is more filling >> because usually coldress and that is not make you full. So this one is >> and your sugar will be spiked as well. >> But for us we add the flax and shear everything. >> The sugar level. >> So you're getting those aminos and everything else. >> All right. So moment of truth. I know >> we should try too. >> One for. Mhm. >> You should. >> That's amazing. >> It doesn't feel It does not feel like watermelon peppermint. >> Yeah. >> This is an answer. >> So fresh. >> And two, >> and no sugar added. >> And if you craving sugar, like when you detox, you crave that sugar. This is an answer to that, right? For me, that's like so refreshing. Our kids love it. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Like I mean, how do you trick your kids to eat like spinach, kale, >> mango? I did that and then I got too close to the fire and I was putting spinach into like muffins and things that I was basing smart >> and then I got too heavy. I was like more more the color the color changed. >> Yeah. They go green and they're just like thud and my kids were like >> the truth is out. >> And then they would never come back. I was like no no no I'll make them the right way and they're likem turned forever. So I flew too close to that flame. You know, you try to make it healthier and healthier, but you don't have to do anything to this. It's brilliant. >> That is time. >> Do you want to try more? >> Yeah. >> Which one should we go next? Where you want to go ahead and next? Green first and then tie twist later. >> Yeah, sure. >> Or maybe we like red and then >> go through by the color. >> Uh, red. So, this one, this one has banana. You said you didn't like bananas. >> I Thailand changed me. the street on actually like I didn't order it in the restaurants. I traditionally I don't like American bananas. That's what it is >> because I had a fried banana today and I could die eating that >> this with the sesame seeds from from the streets. >> Yeah. And then they do sweet potatoes. >> Yep. I had one of those too. And I was just like I'm moving in. This is amazing. It was the best thing I've ever had. I died. It was so good. that and the coconut pancakes that have been there for like a hundred years. >> Oh, coconut pancakes. So good. >> People like we put things on them. I was like, why? You don't need anything more than this. It's everything. If I served that at a dinner party, I would be famous. Like any of those things, they are amazing. >> And this is um closely making my list. What is it? >> This one is strawberry, watermelon, kiwi, chia, lime, banana. >> This one I try. >> Did you like it? It's got the banana though. >> Yeah. >> So, this one is like more like >> the kids love this one. >> Oh, yeah. >> It's like naturally sweet. It's smoother and but the banana doesn't take over. I swear I'm in love with Thai bananas. >> What is the shelf life on these? >> Only three dates. Three to five. >> They're like >> it's like cleanse program. You You just >> You can keep more just to stay safe on the >> Yeah. The taste it's so fresh. I mean, that's the point of the benefits though. You really can't keep anything more than 3 days >> once you've blended it. Um, >> and even the seeds and everything. >> And that's the inside. >> And they're doing it for 3 days. You want it that fresh. >> You see it hard. Um, we try to regulate sugar a lot. So, this is like preworkout. So, >> fuel up. >> Yeah. Or a healthier snack. >> Exactly. >> Oh, yeah. I mean, to break from fast, I do a lot of fasting. And so to break from fasting is this is kind of an amazingly gentle especially like some of these grains, the chia, like all of those things. So, and it's so beautiful. There's no way anyone would do that for sure. I mean, everyone would do that. There's no way anyone would not do that >> as a replacement. Have you all tried the 3-day? >> Yes, multiple times. >> Yes. >> And we love the results. >> How do you feel? >> You want to start? >> I feel >> anti-bloat. >> Yeah. >> Me, too. very very light and like deep >> you control your cravings like I I I after I cleanse I do the cleanse I didn't want the the snacks or something like that control you were yeah rewriting what was before and that's what cleansers are supposed to do supposed to change you from that that's amazing >> what'sai >> your digestion system is also improved >> yeah okay asai mango mulberry kiwi chia coconut. >> Yeah. >> Do you want it? She's like, I want some now. >> Why don't I have some? >> You know what I'm going to do? I'm just going to drink from this. >> It needs a little sip. Yeah. I love it. >> So, we go through the three of this >> and then move on to yellow and then green and blue. >> So, is there an order in which you advise them being taken? Like day one. Boom. Boom. Boom. >> We have We have the advice. >> Mhm. We have the program. >> And what is the method behind it? Do you start them off on more sugar and then wean them down >> into greens in the morning? >> More filling um like bananas and >> Yeah. >> Yeah. We have some soy milk based. >> Um >> so this one >> So okay. So >> Oh, that's fine. >> This one. Hold on. >> Um we have four main different programs. The light and lean is um very light, low cal. >> Yeah. Um and then fit friend is more higher protein, higher calorie. So if when you're on the cleanse program, you can still work out and do normal daily routines. >> Yeah. >> Fine. And then we calculated everything the protein, carb, >> calories on the website. >> All done through >> line official account, the highway >> and Instagram and Facebook page. >> Yeah. And we need to do a link too. So any like American coming with the line account, you actually have to use your Apple ID instead of your American phone number. >> Oh, that's such >> for um to get a line account. And so you have to do that. And then also making a line official. Like there's just certain steps. We should definitely link that for anyone because if you're do like every yogi friend I have that comes here would want to do this when they travel through >> and they need to know how to get online and do it. M. >> So, even doing like um a quick like video or how to boom boom. >> You need to get a line if you're going to be in Thailand. >> I know, right? You do. I My mom was like, "Do you have a WhatsApp?" But all of the other times I've been here and people are like, "Not >> and there's Zallow in Vietnam." You got to get with it, you know? You have to China. >> So, you have the three day. Do you have a longer like a longer one or is it always three days? >> We want to start with three days. the backup plan because the meal plan >> coming at you. Yeah, because people get addicted to cleanses. >> Yeah. >> You know, and they want to go a little bit longer like they want to play with things. It sounds like you could be headed there breakfast like they tend to go out and eat something like not so good. So they create and a very healthy vegan meal plan. >> Yeah. >> Brilliant. Yes. A don't destroy your cleanse plant. Yeah. >> Right. >> The chicken. >> Yeah. I know. I think that the majority >> you're mixing everything >> rainbow like a sunset. >> So, um the newest one we came out with was the gut reset one. It focuses on more greens >> and like Thai herb. Love that garlic. >> Yeah. So good. >> Ginger. So good. Ginger. Oh, so good. >> Is such a major thing. It's being attached to absolutely every, you know, um physical malady out there. And so the gut reset is >> crucial, >> especially for people who work office jobs. I just recently spoke with a physiootherapist who said that like sitting down causes like gut issues and this like having something that you can actually take and ingest like and still maintain your job. But absolutely gut reset's got to be a thing. >> You don't have to think about what you're going to have for lunch or dinner because it's in their fridge in a bottle. So the nutrients everything >> save a lot of time as office worker I don't have to like >> waste time thinking what I >> chicken rice >> so just like open the fridge >> it's so convenient >> is it delivered every day or is all at once >> 3 days at once and then if you want to extend longer we do the next round we don't want to keep it longer than that >> and do they do you link it on your other like on chopsticks and um kind cafe or is it just its own entity >> put it together right now Yeah. >> So, right now, if you go and grab Kind Cafe, you have everything. >> Because once you're done with the cleanse, sometimes you still crave the smoothies because they're so delicious. It's just fruits and veggies, right? So, you can still drink it every day as a supplement. >> Absolutely. >> It'll add vitamin. >> Mhm. I'm going for it. I'm going in on this one. >> Yeah. The uh spirulina. Absolutely. Right. >> Coconut. I think you'll like this one. >> Green drink. So, have you done Scandinavian chef? Like, >> I'm pretty sure that you would like this one. >> I have. I'm sure I'm going to love all of them. I can tell you that much because I've read these labels. The um the green drink in like the Nordic Scandinavian countries in Europe where they do like a lot of celery and spinach and things like that. Have you had that in France when you were there? No. >> They did kind it kind of took over for a while, but it was before the pandemic and then it kind of fizzled out. But since then, yeah. some really like just celery juice forward drinks that it's like incredibly light and celery is like a natural diuretic. It moves through us for you >> has a lot of things. So it reminds me these two remind me of that and I want to see what's in holy >> list is like so long. >> Here you go. >> Mermaid. >> Yeah. And it Yeah, I do. And it delivered. I was like, it's it should taste like it needs to taste a little different and it does and it's really delicate. I expected it to like smack me in the face and it does not. >> You have to pick what um one of your favorite one among >> I absolutely will. I have no problem with decisiveness. I can tell you my favorite child right now. >> I do because it changes every day. My notion is your favorite can change every day. I love this like a peppermint. >> I love love love that. It's really delicate. >> Mhm. >> Mhm. >> I love that texture. >> That's what I'm saying. It's the answer to juice cuz juice cleanses I feel like I've done a couple. I've made my own and it's just it always feels very vacant. It's like three, you know, 30 minutes later I'm like but I don't feel like I consumed anything. And this is not that. >> This is different. So, chef, which green one is your favorite? >> Tai Twist. >> This >> um >> Tai Twist. Yeah. >> Holy basil. >> Yeah, >> that's why. Gotcha. Your favorite. Yeah, of course. Cuz you're a chef >> and that's what you like. Yeah, I do too. I learned um >> Kane's Cafe educated me a great deal about Thai basil yesterday. I was blown away. He was like, "We don't export a lot of it. Thailand uses it." So, the stuff you get overseas is totally different with the the Thai bas. It doesn't come out. Just too thick. >> No, I know. I'm like I'm not doing this over the couch. Yeah. That's good though. >> Boom. Boom. Boom. Scratch. >> Okay. >> That's real good. >> So, would you ever market these? I mean, you can't go into health food stores. I don't know how big they are here. >> I think I poured too much. >> That's good. >> This is hit or miss. >> Oh, that's going to be a hit. I like this. No, this is me. >> Really? >> Yeah. I can like broccoli, spinach, and >> Oh, then you're going to be fine with this. >> Celery and drink it. >> Oh, yeah. >> Really? >> Cheers. >> Cheers. You know what? >> You know what the secret ingredient is? >> Garlic. >> Oh, you're good. >> I would add if this was mine, you know those little red chilies that they do on the streets, the really, really spicy green. >> I know, right? >> The green and red. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> I would grill I would ground those up and throw them in here. >> I mean at first they don't even accept. >> We're like the babies. >> We're the babies. >> But no, I this is amazing. >> Like I can do this. >> Super spicy makes me feel more full, too. >> There was um a woman we were having. They take a peanut with um coconut sugar and put it in like um a rice flour dough and they they steam it. It's like a little rice steam and you put it in >> lettuce leaf >> and then with a pepper >> in the like on the street and you eat it >> and it's like and she was like she likes hot and the tour guy was like yeah she loves hot that like hurts her. She was like, "Have her try one of the chilies plain." And I grabbed it and ate it. And she was like, "I've been here for 40 years. I've never seen a white woman do that." And I was like, "Let's go." I love spice. And um I would take that is for me. >> That feels like a meal. But I would throw like if it like I would encourage myself to like throw some spice with it cuz that feels like some peppers. >> Good to go. >> You'd be done with it. to be a curry. Like just >> you can just your digestion. >> Do stir fry tofu and then pour this on top. >> That's a marriage for your gut though like with the garlic and everything else like that alone. Do you start people off with this one in the morning? >> Do we? >> Yeah. I I for the news the last one I think. >> Ah >> put >> Yeah. The last one of day one >> one in the morning to let the body absorb much fiber as possible and then at noon it will be something that make them full and at night it will be something low sugar to prevent >> I think yeah that's why people put this >> like bottle four of day one >> yeah bottle four of day one >> that's amazing I love it the garlic hasn't made an entrance into my green drinking and it needs to now that's awesome >> and it's raw >> when you had it in empty stomach you feel something like you know you want to >> burn Yeah, better >> bird baby. >> Absolutely. And the difference between that one and this one is that you're throwing in some banana and friendlier. >> Friendlier. Do you struggle with that one? >> Mhm. >> At first, but now I can just >> Now you're good. >> It's easy. >> It's good. >> Aloy. >> So, okay. >> Firina almost has like a chocolate or vanilla. Yeah, there's a delicate note there on the end and I don't know what that is. >> We might have more. >> We might have more. This one is >> m avocados. >> Nice. Have you been to the chocolate shop in um Sonat? It's a that famous It's It started off really tiny and it's a Thai chocolate >> bar 23. So they have a cacao soda. You got to go try it. >> Yeah, because for me it kind of spins my wheels with like cacao. You don't think of it that way. >> This one This one is so nice. >> Lots of protein in this bowl. >> What's in it? >> You can You have to guess. >> A secret. Okay. >> You have to guess. >> I will guess. >> This has got avocado. >> If we can get it also. It's so thick. >> Maybe the last one. >> M. That's creamy. The avocado, right? >> Yeah. >> Mhm. Yeah. That's gonna get you through the day. >> The kids love this one. This one, too. >> Kid friendly. >> Yeah. >> The bananas, the avocado, the berries. >> Yeah. That's amazing. It feels good. It feels like something that like will satiate you through a workout, you know, >> like through a day. It feels like >> Should we put on a spoon or >> maybe >> Is it Is there cacao in that? What? What's making it brown? Black bean or no not black beac cacao. I was going to say black rice. >> What's that? >> What did they make? What do they come up with the black? What is the rice jelly? Uh tea that I had. Black tea, I guess, is what I would assume. >> Oh, is it grass jelly? >> Grass jelly. >> Cowboy, right? >> This one is banana. [Music] >> This one is just My son loves this one. >> Oh, yeah. Of course. >> It's how to trick them into getting more greens. >> Yeah. What's in it? Um, spinach, mango, pineapple, banana, chia seeds, flax seeds, >> the best. Seeds are the best. They have so many amazing brain food fuels in them. >> Yeah, >> you can tell them about seeds. Like she she'll fill a cup up like this full of just chia, >> put hot water over it, and just make them eat it. >> Oh, I need to try. >> These are so good for the human brain. >> You might kill me though. for you. It like balances everything >> your whole >> It's like pudding >> system. >> Yeah. >> But that's the that's the selling point, right? >> It has to be it has to be thick because >> it's very love this one. It's like a moose. It's like a moose. >> It's a dessert. It's like it's it's a dangerous snack. It's like wonderful. >> You will be addict to this one. >> Yeah. Absolutely addicted. Yeah. That's >> Can you guess? >> Challenge for you. >> Can you guess from banana? >> Yeah. >> Cacao. Does it have any cacao in it? Chocolate of some sort. >> Yeah. >> No. >> No. Coffee. >> I feel like maybe some soy milk or tofu. >> Yeah. Yeah. Soy milk. Some soy. >> But similar to tofu, which makes it 20 g of protein. >> Soy beans or no? Similar to tofu. We have mixed bean powdered, >> right? >> Like white beans. >> Yeah, >> there it is. >> Beans, but more more more extreme. >> Yeah, that's what I And you can't taste any of that. It's the soy. It It tastes like a chocolate soy milkshake, which is my like favorite. >> Do you feel anything else? >> There's like a spice to it. There's like a >> There's a cinnamon spice. >> Cardamon or something. >> That's why I was thinking coffee. >> But the secret one is The one that makes up >> most of the protein in this >> for your gut. >> Flax. >> Yeah, we have flax, but >> good for your gut. >> Protein. >> Protein proteins. >> Mhm. >> I mean, I'm thinking of >> kimchi. >> That will be the next flavor. >> Good guess. >> Kimchi chocolate. >> Good for your gut. >> Tofu. And well, vegans get their protein from >> beans. >> Beans. >> What beans? >> Yeah. Type of >> fermented beans. >> Soybean or >> fermented beans? >> Fermented beans. Yeah. >> Tempe. >> Yes. We were just in Bali living on tempeh. Okay. Because tempeh does not make a presence in an appearance on a lot of Thai cuisine that I've been to. Like the vegan restaurants here don't. I love tempeh. Fresh tempe is the best. >> And like in Bali when I eat tempeh, I feel like I've gone to heaven. I can just eat it for a meal. It's amazing. >> Yeah. Yeah. I would have said tempe, but I thought that it was like kind of on the low end of the spectrum here. That's awesome. I love it. >> Natto, which is >> I want to get into some I want to get into some chopsticks. Can we have some of this? Is this allowed? >> This is all you because we already had like five >> eating with me. I will not eat alone. That is not happening. >> Everyone have some. What? Okay. What am I getting into right here? What is this? >> It's good that we went through all the healthier stuff. >> I know. I'm like switch gears. >> The sweet chili. >> Those um that those cleanses are amazing. >> I get it. There's like something extra. It's not your normal >> Oh, yeah. This is so good. >> So good. >> It's like a once a week thing. Netflix and chill. >> Yep. Mhm. >> But that's the point actually like uh we use a protein uh we use not kind of like mock meat but we use texture vegetable protein. >> So it's you know it's the old school protein based but anyway it's not too bad for you. >> It's not meat >> to compare to Yeah. to compare to mock meat. But anyhow, like we know that this is still processed, but we want it to be the journey of people who shift to a vegan plant-based, you know, just just take one step. >> Yeah. You got to get them somehow, right? Vegan food can be delicious. >> This is uh this is TVP. >> Orange chicken tomato. >> Orange chicken. We use TVP to to coat and deep fry. >> Mhm. >> Okay. I don't think I've ever cooked with textured vegetable protein. What vegetables does it come from? >> It's mostly soy. Soy. >> Soy. Okay. But it's got a better texture than I don't really like mock meats. They don't sit well with meat >> and there's a reason obviously with the um >> the sodium and things. This is lighter. I love this. Do you try a lot? Did you come to this one like specifically? >> She went through like a phase. I just slept in the kitchen. >> What's your favorite? like you're cooking with your favorites, but is this like what you you feel like fits best with your stomach and everything that you've tried these mock me not mock meats, but this mixture? >> But for real, I I still like I still don't eat it. I eat more food anyway. >> Yeah. >> Beans and pals like >> once a month for her. >> Yeah. >> But >> but I mean we we for >> for people. Yeah. And it tastes good. >> Like my husband loves this. >> Yes. Of course. He like turned vegan because of me and then if it weren't for these types of food, he would never >> have made the shift. >> Yeah. >> So >> that's good. >> It's really good. >> And if you have it fresh like >> at our kitchen, it would be so crispy. But >> it's hard for deliveries, but >> but it's still there. I mean, yeah. No, most people get Chinese delivered, >> you know, and so it happens anyway. But what we can do is we can like do the sauce on the side and then you air fry >> the stuff and then you put on the sauce. >> My whole black bean. >> This is a healthier one. >> Yeah. The whole food one. >> Is that a black bean? >> Yes. >> I have not seen that anywhere here. I brought my own. >> Oh yeah. >> To Thailand. >> She sells beans. >> Do you really? I travel with it because I worry when they when I can't find them. >> You bring beans when you travel >> and spices and a knife. Yummy. >> Okay, this is my third lunch, guys. >> I finished like the wrap. >> This is good. >> Uhhuh. >> Before you guys came, so >> those are gorgeous. And this is how they arrive. >> Yeah, >> that's like a really big serving, too. >> Yes. >> Mhm. >> San Francisco. >> Yeah, you would. >> Should we move to San Francisco? >> Yes, you should. You take it over by storm. Oh, >> yes. This has got some really heavy flavor. Can we come see you guys? >> Yes, absolutely. We're in San Diego, which is south, but you can open there, too. We have a better beach. Do you like the ocean? >> Yeah. We have the best beach in all of America. Wow. >> Sorry. >> It's a bunch of surfers. >> San Francisco. >> $13 at >> Did you try this? >> I know. I can't get enough. >> Yeah. Yay. >> Back from swimming. >> Finally. >> Famous. >> Do you want to try this one? >> Do you like this one? >> Huge. >> He's like, >> he normally likes it, right? >> Yeah. >> How do you run your deliveries? Do you have like >> an app or like >> grab? Just grab >> and grab. >> Is it easy or complicated? >> It's easier for sure. Yeah, because >> t people just go and grab. Mhm. >> And they make like the platform make makes it um cheaper for delivery fees. >> Yeah. >> So we're we're based in Ikami. If you're like tong prom it's almost free delivery. >> Yeah. So it's good for them. Do you have people that get on and just order lunch for the week? >> Like you have people that for kind cafe like I was like I would just get on and be like Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, you know? Like it was just it was for a grab because I can schedule it a day out >> and it's brilliant. I mean the notion of just being able to understand what you're having >> my husband. I'm Patricia. Nice to meet you. Your home is beautiful. >> We're like crashing and he doesn't know. >> I know. We're all just eating bunch of cameras. Don't worry. Mhm. Excellent. That is so good. No, that's um that is straightforward and it is the best like Friday night. >> Let's do I do want to get into this these >> so good. >> I love a good rap. This is going to be fun. >> Order this stuff for the kids tonight on Grab. >> No, because you have to do it earlier enough in the day. So Kind Cafe on Grab like at 5 you can't order. Yeah. >> Online venue. You close at 5. >> Close at 4:30 now. >> Yeah. Tomorrow. >> So, tomorrow what you can do is, and that's what I tried to get them to do. I was like, "Make your order. You can share an order vegan." >> And um, >> great job the night before. You can order it the night before, David, and they can just deliver up this chili. >> I know. Yeah. Absolutely. Okay. Which one is which? What am I looking for? >> Oh, try this first. This is our >> Yeah. signature. >> So we call it taco beef beef crunch. So we make taco as a beef. >> Okay. >> Inside. >> But the beef is lentils and walnuts and mushrooms. So this is we moved over to the to the whole food side. >> It's so pretty looking. I'm going to hold this up for a second. >> Look at that. >> And then this is Chef B's homemade salsa. >> So beautiful. >> So you just basically >> Yeah. Or you can pour it on >> and then take a bite. >> This is happening. >> Yeah. >> M. >> That is so good. No, it really is. You have to try this. >> All right. >> Unbelievable. Where are you? What are you doing with your cheese? How did you get that? >> Cheese sauce. >> Yeah. Seasoning. >> Did you make it? Nutritional yeast. A lot of nutritional yeast. the kind cafe. >> I was worried like I was a little bit like, well, you know, we're doing a salsa that's kind of like a Mexico thing and I live on the border of Mexico. >> Yeah, you could go to Mexico. >> This is amazing. This is so well done. >> You should try. >> We don't eat Mexican when we leave our area because we're worried it's not going to eat. >> Hi, Father. >> You want to join us? >> Are you hungry? >> Oh, he's gone. That's amazing. That is dynamite. >> That's amazing. Really? >> I'm so glad that you're using lentils. >> Yeah. >> Because coming up with those flavors and the texture, you don't have to vary away from the whole foods. >> Mhm. >> And everyone who goes to mock meats does. And I'm like, you just end up destroying something, you know? >> It's amazing. >> How are your avocados? Is it easy to get good avocados here or is it terrible? >> Expensive. >> Yeah, >> really great. But still can get there. >> Okay. >> Now we have Thai avocado but it's >> it's not the same. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. The the flavors are perfect. I can't even >> This one is the >> And the wrap. How are you making this wrap? What is this? What is this? >> No, this it's the one thing that we need to get to making our own wraps. How is is it grilled on a press? A panini press? >> On a pan. Yeah, on a pan. >> It's so good. What else do we have in here? >> Avocado. >> Tortilla chips. >> Tortilla chips. That's what it is. The corn that's coming from. >> Are you tasting that? I'm like, there's tomatoes in there. I taste like tomatoes. >> The crumbles, lentils, and what else? >> Mushrooms. >> Mushrooms. Walnuts. >> Yeah. >> Okay. So the ground beef is basically mushrooms and lentils. >> Does Thai do is there street street corn in Thai food? >> Street corn like grilled and you just eat it. Corn on the cob. >> Yeah, >> I went to most countries I go to, but I haven't seen a lot of it on menus here. >> It feels like you just get it on the street. >> That's how you do it. >> That's unbelievable. Yeah, that's um people would come back again and again. What is it called? Beef taco crunch wrap. >> Who design was this all of you coming together like let's do something like who's designing this? >> Oh, >> everyone. >> Yeah, we decided >> she comes up with like the cool food combination stuff. >> It's all just like a collaboration. >> How long did it take you to come up with the menu for Kind Cafe? >> But actually Kind Cafe when when I when we joined. >> Yeah, it was already here. that they she already created. >> I had a few like favorites that we do at home >> like the the menus that I get my husband to to to come to the vegan side. >> Yeah. >> So, we just did that on put that on the menu >> and this is one of >> Yeah. It's just like a a living room experiment >> and you just were coming up with these recipes. >> My mom was helping me stuff like that. >> What inspired you to launch it in the first place? Well, I loved it so much that and then the the the first time we we opened the cafe like the dining and stuff. It was like next to my husband's shop store. We sell golf equipments, by the way. Totally unrelated, >> but um I wanted him to have have like lunch easily every day. >> Something to eat. >> Something to eat. >> So, why not open a vegan cafe next to your husband's workplace? >> I mean, why not love? >> Yeah. I mean, the endeavor. You're like, I want you to have lunch with me every day. I'm going to open a cafe. >> I'm creepy. Now that you Now that you >> No, I love it. I mean, it's just so much work opening a restaurant. >> And then our our 3-year-old, he's vegan since like >> in my tummy. >> Yeah. >> So, I wanted to have to have like some good food for for our family. >> Um, but then it was really small, like only a like not even 10 menus on the list. And then that's why I like dragged them into this hole with me. >> You were like, "Come >> so we can like run together." >> Yeah. >> And be exhausted together. And then now we have this >> and it's grown from So you had this kind of like smaller pair down. And now how many things are on the menu? Do you know? >> It's so many coming and and gone. >> Yeah. >> So total in total now maybe 30 >> it if include >> everything. Yeah, because the smoothie >> we have 22 22 23 flavors before we have rice as well like >> Thai kapow garlic fried kind of spaghetti we have >> I will bring the meal plan because I brought my own meal plan today from >> Okay. Do they um where's the kitchen? Do they all come from the same kitchen? >> Yeah, you can visit some. >> Is it down? Where is it? >> Okay. I'm like, "Let's talk." >> A healthy meal plan. Yeah. >> Just to show you that I actually order from our own restaurant. This is what I brought from from work today to this meeting. >> Okay. >> So, like after you do the smoothie cleanse, you may eat the healthier. >> This is an you would love this. >> Those are gorgeous. >> Yeah. And that's like girl power fire rice >> porkling tofu >> spicy and old grow >> humble be. So wait but this is this currently being offered cuz this was the next phase of of the juice cleanse and it's already in production >> so you cleanse full cleanse. >> This is a chickpea omelette. >> Chickpea omelette >> and kapa basil. Holy basil >> basil. >> And this one is also great. This is a kan tempe. >> Kan is very famous for aroma. >> Chicken rice with >> chicken. Yeah. >> Okay. Mushroom from here. It looks like a tempe. >> The bean curd. >> Okay. >> Beautiful tempe. >> Tempe. >> And this >> like a crumbled tempeh. Interesting. I have not seen that done. That's awesome. >> This will be your kids dinner tonight. >> I know. I mean it is like I love that it's I thought this was actually part of like Cafe Kind and this is the whole next level. >> Yeah. This is like once you're done with the program, the 3-day cleanse, you do like day four. >> Yeah. >> With tofu scrambled, tempe, garlic, tempe biryani, and then two more smoothies just for the vitamin boost, whatever. And then you would never stop. >> I I can see people just doing it forever. Like, >> yeah, that's what I'm doing right now. >> So, you can stop day in a row and then one day free. >> So, like Monday to Saturday. >> Yeah. And then Sunday you just >> think about how great you'd feel like that's like and and you know on Sunday just Saturday go to town. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So it's the weekend. >> But it's a really good >> those meal plans are bring super tiny. That's why Brooklyn did that series on it. It's like they've gotten smaller and smaller because the chefs don't know how to make them healthy enough in the States. And so the meal plans are like this big and everyone's just like >> you guys have like breast. a lot of meal plan programs right in the states. >> They look good. >> Um, yeah. I don't know because I haven't tried any of them in a long time, but the serving sizes were tiny and every friend I have that does them, they're just miserable >> because they don't feel fulfilled. It It isn't a system. They don't feel like it's getting there. I know that now things have picked up and things are starting to be more curated for people, but that throws the cost through the roof cuz you basically have a private shop, you know, and it's all just in this like >> goal of being healthy. And so like having this and having I think the options is so cool to be able to drop into 3 days, do a couple of days of this, go somewhere for the weekend, come back, do it all again, you know, those like that's it's what people want. Like not having this like you're locked in the next 30 days you're eating this like >> that kind of a thing is wonderful. And the taste it will sell itself. People just need to give it a shot. You know, the flavors are insane. >> No, it's so good. And look, you can have chopsticks on Sunday. It's been really good the whole week. >> Yeah. >> Right. I don't think you need to. This is I mean that is like a a gift for me. That feels like a fun food. It is. We're so happy to hear that. >> Yeah, it really is. >> Are you too full now or >> It's an amazing marriage. No, I'm going to try. >> Doesn't matter. This is all bean spiced bean. Oh, >> this is purple. Is this purple cabbage stuff? >> Yes. >> Okay. I've I've been told that this is like more precious than gold. >> This one has to be inside. But you know this add in but can you just >> eat it together? >> Yeah. This one is a root vegetable chopstick. >> Is it really hard? >> A root vegetable from >> almost like a melon. But let me >> You know what it looks like? It looks like um Dayan you know it's one of your favorites. Daikon. >> Yes, it's da. >> Yeah, right. >> But it's sweet, is it? But this one is >> No. >> This is This is like Don's sweet sister. This is very light. Just like veggies. >> Mexican yam or yam. >> This is like what I make for my kids because I'm too lazy to eat. And we have the Thai chives. >> Guinea. >> Tai chai is famous on the street food that they put in the like sticky dump >> pancakes. sell down the road. >> This one I implemented to be local and also like you know western together >> but you can't find purple cabbage cuz I've looked for it. >> Oh, you have it. >> It's like >> text me if you can't find anything. >> Yeah, >> you bought a purple cabbage. >> It was $30 American. >> It was $30 for one head. >> $30. >> Where'd you find Villa? Right. store. You should go to the fresh market. >> Yeah, macro or fresh market. >> Store is cheaper. >> Yeah, the Lotus. >> Someone said, "Just go to Tops. You're being ridiculous." And I was like, I had no idea. The guy that I rented my flat from was like, "Vella, right down the street." And I was like, >> "You don't need to be doing that." >> I know. The chives is like the >> Guai. It's like a very Thai traditional snack. Mhm. >> Yeah. >> Um with a very thin pancake like I don't know. >> Is it chives? Is it an onion inside? >> Yeah. Thai chive >> that I had on the street today inside that. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. It was amazing. >> So it's basically that but it's a mixed in >> to try. It's >> this one is I just gave you a bite of that one. >> Yeah. I just I just >> Oh, cheese sauce. You need to dip it in. Dip it in. Hold on. Um me. >> Yeah. >> Or just chopsticks. >> What sauce are you going on here, Chef? What is the like the creamy white? >> That is our homemade bayonets. >> What are you using to do that? >> From white bean. >> Is it really? >> Yeah. >> No. So good. It's so much better for you than like using an oil to get to a mayonnaise. She's making her mayonnaise out of white bean. We need to hang out more. Like I've been trying to make my own cheese sauce, the paprika. That is so good. I'm going to try some. >> So that goes with this one. >> But imagine if you put this in the in the >> air fryer. >> Fry. >> Mhm. >> And with crisp. >> Yeah. >> I don't mind it the way it is. >> It's a bit soggy now, but it will do. >> What is it? >> Try. >> This is the spicy. >> Sweet potato. Bean. What do we got in here? Corn. Chickpea. M. Chickpea. You get the sauce on it. >> The sauce is so thick. Everything is so thick. >> My concern about what chef is doing with her um with their >> mayonnaise. Everything just shifted for me. She's getting that mayonnaise out of bean, which means that all all issues with the heart and cholesterol and everything just dissipated. >> Yeah. >> Like it's truly healthy. >> Just do oil, but >> Mhm. Traditional mayonnaise is eggs and >> Yeah. Even less is better, you know. >> Give a try. >> And you're substituting it with something that actually has protein. >> Mhm. >> With the bean if you're going with that milk base. >> That's what >> So protein. >> What is this? White bean. >> White bean. Red bean and chickpea. >> We cooked with barbecue sauce. >> Yeah, the barbecue sauce is amazing. I have not tasted a good barbecue sauce in a long time. Are you making that yourself? >> Kale. It's a mix. No. >> Yeah, we vibe. >> I find that the most satisfying. I think it's got a lot of whole foods. >> Yeah. >> Avocados, kale, sweet potatoes. >> The sweet potato adds a layer that is needed. If it wasn't there, it would be way too bean forward. >> Mhm. It is like I'm going to >> She tricked me into eating more beans because she sells beans. I'm going to take that idea. The sweet potato really balances it. I do too many bean forward things. My kids are like, you know, beans, you know. Yeah. >> And the like the sweet potato tempers it. It tempers the texture. >> It changes everything. >> And cheese sauce is amazing. You I mean you could sell jars of that. Who made it? Where where did it come from? >> Yeah. >> Why? What is it? this dish that made you make that or did that already exist? Was she first or was she first? >> Her is you. >> Oh, is this one is mine one? Oh, because we wanted to put it in here. >> So, we do a wrap and then a layer of cheese sauce and then the ground beef and then the crispy tortilla chips. >> So, did you make this or did chef design it to make you happy? >> Well, I only came up with this one, right, to pair it with the taco. Mhm. >> And then she made it healthier and then made like the may the bean based mayonnaise. >> And what else do we have next? >> The cheese on the sauce. The taco is >> cheeseite mayo. >> Regular mayonnaise. >> You all need to come. >> So like pesto. Her pesto is the best too. >> What are you doing for your Are you doing like a nut a pine nut? What are you doing for your nut flavor in the pesto? What are you grinding? >> Sunflower nut seeds and kale >> and cash nut and kale with kale. >> Kale, basil. You're putting basil in there. Thai basil. Olive oil. >> Thai basil. >> Mhm. I got to taste that. >> We We also have the oil free pot as well. >> M. So cashew based. >> Yeah. >> Oh, so good. It's like goes so well with pasta, with bread. That's enlightening. I love that. And then lots of nutritional yeast. Nutritional yeast. I have put that in my pesto for years now. Yeah. And because it gives it that extra >> the smell and B12. >> Mhm. All of it. Unbelievable. This is um >> Oh my gosh. >> I have had like six bites, but the with the Glenn's juices, like everything else, I am so stuffed and I could not be happier. I feel like I've had an array. Look at the bounty of color from this to like everything else. We've been a little healthy. We've been a little naughty. We've been clean. Like it's all been had. This has been heaven. I love it all. >> I'm wondering when you all are looking at what you're doing here, do you have a concise story about what you're doing? Like because I see the trajectory. I understand the cleanse. I understand the detox. I understand the fun food. >> I understand the clean whole foods. But like when you're talking about your story with people and you're introducing these three things, is it a very clear picture for you as to what you're doing or is it a little disjointed or do they all communicate? >> Actually like we promote the kind cafe as the healthy one >> that one is the fun food, right? But for the humble be we we we kind of communicate broadly like mass communicate that oh this is the smoothie cleanse. So everyone no matter you are vegan, nonvegan, vegetarian, carbby war, >> you can eat this like you can love your body and do the cleanse. So the humble beef one we we we a little bit changed to with the humble bead because we would like >> we didn't put vegan in there. >> Yeah. We would like to send this good things to everyone. >> Yeah. >> No matter what. >> Yeah. I think we stumbled upon like a a minor problem with with Kind Cafe and even Chopsticks in the beginning that like it's too like vegan forward and sometimes >> not everyone will be open >> to trying vegan is a charged term >> and a lot of people back away from it unless they found it and they identify with it >> right we just want them to >> plantbased I think is why a lot of people marketing wise they went into plantbased But people just need to try your food because the taste is what's going to sell everyone. >> We just need them to try the first time. >> Absolutely. >> Yeah. And then Humblebe, we just like ditch the vegan part >> and we want to be more mass and then we we kind of like try to trick them a little bit and onto like it's just fruits and veggies. It doesn't have to be called vegan, right? >> Even this one like 20 grams of protein. People just like, "Wow, it's great." But you know, you eat tempe. People are so scared of tempeh sometimes. Are they? >> So, okay. So, >> we don't even put tempe on the list. We just make it the secret. >> Yeah. The Thai. So, is that a like more of a Thai cuisine thing? Like it's preferred to have tofu rather than tempe. >> Tofu and meat. >> Is it the fermented? What is the >> I don't have knowledge of it's not popular yet. >> I see. >> How to cook it? How to make it good? And sometimes the smell can be a bit much >> for some people. >> Yeah. Tempe for like everything is best fresh for me, you know, and places that eat a lot of it is easier to get it fresh >> as opposed to places where it's rare, it becomes >> doesn't smell good, >> packaged, not as smelling as great, all of those things. So, that makes sense. >> And then once they're done with the smoothies, which it's automatically vegan, right? And then we get on them onto the meal plan, which is plant-based, >> but we just say that it's good for your gut. >> Yeah. It's >> to like avoid meat for a while. >> Yeah. So, we're trying to >> because we're all about getting people to to be more plant-based, basically. So, >> we try a lot of stuff. >> There's lots to convert people, you know, and you've got a lot going on here to help them convert into it, you know. You've got the ways where you can get your um fun food, your whole food, your detox and everything and introduce that you've done all of that without consuming meat. Do they do like veganuary like in this United States? It's a really big deal to start the new year. Our new year starts in January >> and it's like it start a lot of people go vegan for a week or a month >> to help the planet the body like all of it. Is that a thing or no? Here in Thailand it does it has a big thing. >> But she's trying to like go forward with it. >> It's all over social media. Every time January hits, it's like V January, you know, it's my challenge and and like when people that >> I think that they look for things, you know, for things like that. But okay, what about the um the vegetarian week that happens the Chinese? Yeah. October or >> like depending when the 10 days on the lunar calendar? >> October. Yeah. >> So, has that ever made a play into like what you're doing here like marketing towards that? So people are like, "Well, I'm doing it anyway. I might as well." >> Yeah. >> We plan to like let them do the smoothie cleanse plus meal plan during the J festival. >> Okay. Yeah. Okay. And I'm missing Isn't that No, something happened in October. What happened? And then there was another event that happens in November. I missed everything. There's something else I'm missing. And I was complaining to my tour. I was like, "No." So all of these wonderful things that Thailand celebrates, you know, with the foods and things like that. >> You can come back in October. I think you'll love it. I think you'll love it. >> If they let me, I will. It is absolutely >> I know. Always. >> Yeah. Unbelievable. >> We should do something like when we get married, you know. >> Yeah. It's still not that big in Thailand. We need to like be more because Cheese is all about like veganism. She like went to a salt slaughter house and protest like >> you can start you can start like your own movements too because you can identify it with just like you know someone being responsible. Pick your reason like there was an ad one time that I saw that said just pick your reason for what you want to do V January for your health the planet the animals because your friends are doing it. It was like all of these different boxes you could click and just like I'm going to do it, you know, >> and then make challenge. >> Yeah. And then it's just something that you feel like doing, you know, but getting um people who like are into fitness, all of you, into health, into, you know, the environment, like all of those things to just be like do it for a month. The impact on you and your environment will be sustainable, >> you know, or it will be recognizable. And everyone does anything for a month. We all try a new fashion. We all do, you know, drive a certain way, a car, whatever, for a month. We are capable of doing this. And it's interesting. It shakes things up. Who wants to be the same every single month, you know, and getting out there and trying like >> doing this, like exploring. I've been to Thailand six times and I went home and I was talking to a friend, an advisor, and she said, "I cannot believe you didn't eat your way through Bangkok. It is becoming a foodie capital of the world. People are mentioning it in every food magazine alongside Paris, New York, London. I was telling chef about this in our last interview and it's um on the vegan scale. People are like Bangkok's going to be really big. Like it's like it's starting to get a lot of traction. California, where I'm from, is considered to be a state that is a food mecca for vegans. New York. There's a lot of different places in the United States, but Bangkok is a city that people are like, it's happening, you know, and having tasted chef like this here tonight gains like there's places here that like I absolutely see it rolling in and it's happening fast, you know, and so I think that getting the social movements like at least getting like these young challenges going and just making them fun even on a smaller scale, they're going to be wildfire once that vegan scene approaches. >> And it will. It absolutely will. Especially like if you're ready because vegan scenes will approach a city and it's kind of like, yeah, but they don't really know what they're doing. You know, I've gone to some towns and been like, "Oh, it's not really great food yet. You need to like realize it." And this is like waiting. There's a reason why, you know, I think Bangkok is absolutely going to arrive. It's so cosmopolitan already. >> And the the country of Thailand is undeniably beautiful and kind and wonderful, but the food is amazing, you know, and it it deserves to be part of that. I think that elite group of people like being mentioned and the vegan scene is here like it's absolutely ready to blow up. I think >> it's coming. >> It's growing. >> I know. That's my firing. >> Even happens. You heard it here. Like I'm not here to inspire. I'm here to be right. You know, like I promise it's going to happen. And um I'm so excited by all these ventures. You gota you have to stay alive. You got to stay with us. Start the challenges. You know, it's um it's a beautiful thing. And I'm kind of in love with cloud kitchens >> because I think that they really give people the freedom to play around with like what you all are doing. You were like, "But we want to have some, you know, some fun junk food. We want to be healthy. We want to do a a juice cleanse." And that would be very difficult to do in one kitchen, right? It would be complicated. I love this. I wish I had this in my house because my children are like d I'm like, "Oh." And this is like hello. >> Hello everybody. >> It's everything. So if you could describe kind of all of these endeavors. First of all, do you have a favorite one? And if you could describe these companies and what the you know the three of you are doing, how would you sum it up? Each one of you separately. >> Oh, >> we do so much, so many different things. >> Um, for me, I think it's >> okay. >> For me, I think like we try to serve the good food like >> Yeah. >> Yeah. It's healthier food, but we try to like um Try to make them think like no matter what this is ve yeah actually this is vegan but vegan is not mean like you have to >> boring >> yeah boring or only salad thing >> we don't eat salad >> we eat some lot of like good food that you can enjoy if you and you are still like vegan still save the planet still friendly to animals like this so so this is our challenge >> and we tend to to do so. >> Yeah, it's hard. It's very >> You can go last. >> Um I think what makes our team as um a bit different is that because we're actual real vegans, living vegans. So we try to like cater to diff vegan vegans on a different level like see and people who are other other partner is super strong like fitness info >> and healthy. >> Yeah. So >> so with with that um they can still enjoy a lot of our stuff >> um a lot of our selections. And then myself I'm like more fun maybe 60% healthy 40% junk. So, I enjoy like a wide variety. Like this week I want to do cleanse. Next week I might do a few chopsticks meals. >> And then like Kind Cafe is like a a my go-to because I can always eat it every day. >> So I think that makes like our brand our company is actually called be kind to every kind. >> Mhm. >> So in the company we have three different brands like the umbrella. So, I think we're different than most restaurants because we're actual we're actual vegans and it's like vegan owned. So, we know what what we're looking for, what what our fellow vegans are looking for >> and we don't really do it to like sell food as chef always like want to say that >> we want we do it to save the planet, the animals. So, this is just a part of our responsibility. >> Yeah. to it's like our mission that we're doing all this. This is just like a step closer to pulling more people in and to open their minds >> and people love good food. So, this is why we're doing this. >> Yeah. >> And we all like FYI because I don't know if you know that we all have like our >> This is just a hobby. >> We all have day jobs. >> I teach golf. Two little kids. >> Okay. >> And she has an office. >> Yes. and Shep does like a lot of her other things, >> shave work. >> Yeah. So, this is just our fun project that we come together and >> and it's so much fun. >> It's so much for a project. >> The rewards might not be huge. >> Yeah. >> But >> but you can come. >> We enjoyed so much. >> Hello. >> Just woke up. >> The product's really good. So just a matter of finding your market. >> Mhm. So chef. >> Yeah. And just to cover everything she's speak >> I'm just going to say that I think we sincere and we have a pure heart because we are truly vegan. And honestly for me like I know what I'm eating like because I'm vegan and I want to make that food you know for everybody to because not not everybody can can cook like especially vegan and then to understand the taste. So I wanted to present them, you know, the food that actually delicious but no harm to any any animals. >> Yeah. >> And so I think it's about growing together, you know, like for me like it's >> I I grow from, you know, I love I I used to like fast food, mock meat, but now I shift toward whole food. So I just install that into the business. >> Yeah. Whatever she eats, we eat. And then if I I grow more, you know, I just make it better and better and better to >> because the trend is to be shared and people have to get more healthy. >> Yes. >> Make different. >> It is. And it's there like it's it's doing what all of you said. That's so beautiful. For this to be a hobby, you're you're a force to be reckoned with. >> He's like, I'm just surveying and I'm out of here. Walking through. You want a bite? >> P. Didn't you just like tell your mom that you wanted to become a vegetarian? >> Yes. >> Yes. But I can't really because >> trying. We color coordinate. Your shirt matches my pants and my shirt. >> We could be a marketing ad. >> Yeah. >> Make some money on the side side hustle. >> Marketing. >> This one of your favorite >> that tastes like milkshake. Do you know milkshake dessert? >> Yeah, they love it. >> Yeah, that would be a a constant in my house. In fact, it would never be in my house because people would just be >> Dairy Queen. See, it doesn't move. >> That's wonderful. Thank you so much for meeting with me. I appreciate all of you. You've been to your recent auditions. More than happy and over the moon to have you here. I really appreciate you like speaking with me. >> Thank you so much for visiting. >> Thank you so much. And the the female like um foundation that's happening here is I think so crucial across the world. The ideas, the product is sublime. The vision is driven. Like I can't believe it's a side hustle, you know? If this is your side hustle, the world should world worry about your main one, you know? >> So, I love it and I think it should be seen and heard. I really do. It's something for every single phase of what you're doing with your week, your month, your life. And it's I don't lie about flavor. If I what I say when I taste something I don't like is I'm not sure I understand this or this is very interesting because I really do feel that way. Like walk me through it. Maybe I do like it. Maybe I need to be told why. You know those kinds of things. But there wasn't there just wasn't one thing here that I wouldn't eat again. It's beautiful. Thank you so much. I appreciate you. >> Thank you. Thanks for listening to Borderless. I hope you enjoyed this conversation. If you like this episode, please subscribe so that you can continue to hear fascinating conversations as I continue to wander the globe. You can follow us on Instagram at borderless-odcast or head over to our website borderless-podcast.com for more info and updates. This episode was produced by Patricia Kathleen Productions and a special thank you to the team that makes it all happen. Charie Turnate, Emma Baker, and Finn Wild. Wherever you are in the world, I hope our conversation made you feel a little more seen and connected. Until next time, take good care. [Music]