# Persia Juliet Ubud

Published: 2025-07-11

to stand up for my boundaries and yeah. Yeah. So, not pleasant. Um I'm glad that I went through it though because there was something in that experience. It's like I will do this for everything and I will do this for nothing. It's like I'm teaching yoga whether I have money, whether I don't have my whether I have a home, whether I don't have a home. Like this is my path. Yeah. That's what it felt like for me. Um so at that point I fell in love with a DJ accent. Yes. Excellent. >> Hi, I'm Patricia Kathleen. I travel the world with a mic in hand and questions to ask. And this is where those conversations live. My guests and I get into everything. Work, identity, creativity, purpose, the big stuff, the messy stuff, and the stuff that actually matters. From alleyway chats to studio sitdowns, I bring you with me as I talk to chefs, scientists, artists, activists, whoever around me has a story worth hearing. Wherever you're listening from, welcome. I'm glad you're here. Now, let's get into it. >> My name is Persia Juliet. I'm a yoga teacher of 20 years. I'm currently teaching at Alchemy Yoga in Ubud. And I've also created my own brand and company which is called Soma Chandra. And Somandra is a yin yoga training that's deeply deeply steeped in Chinese medicine. There's currently a 50hour and there's soon to be a level two currently working on it. And yeah, I mentor yoga teachers. I support them growing on their path. Um I offer other courses called like the thread to help with storytelling and theming. So I'm very interested in post secondary education for yoga teachers [Music] >> and briefly you are from Vancouver, Canada. >> I'm from Vancouver, Canada >> and your original training was >> Bickram in Los Angeles at the old headquarters with Bickrim himself. >> Oh my goodness. >> Yep. >> You have that on your resume to tell people about forever to impress people by the fire side. initiation by >> the end of time. >> Yeah. >> Unbelievable. Yeah. Your whole life. Baptism by fire. >> My whole life. >> I love that. Let's launch into your yoga story. >> So, before I got into yoga, I worked at this amazing health food chain. It's called Capers or it was called Capers. It's now known as Whole Foods. Ah. So, I worked there in Canada and my background was holistic nutrition. So, I would take people shopping around the store and help them find their gluten-free meals that good supplements that would help their digestion. And this capers happened to be right in front of the big yoga studio. So, every day around the same time, these hot, sweaty, dripping yoga teachers would come in and they were always giving me free classes. They crushed. >> And so, finally, I went in and um I just don't know what happened. Like, I was extremely uncomfortable. I was wearing a triple X large t-shirt, sweatpants. Nobody told me that it was hot yoga. So, I'm like dripping with sweat. And I have this really clear memory of like it was the first time in my life up until that point. It's only 23 years old, so quite young. But I just remember laying down on the floor before the spine strengthening series. And when I went to catch my outer ankles, I felt my ship bones on the floor for the first time in my life. And it's like something like penny dropped and I went, "Oh my god." I have a body and I had no awareness of how disassociated and disconnected I was with my body then um until that moment. And I have many many challenging stories of bulimia, binging and purging, of body weight fluctuations. So honestly that first class like something dropped for me and then I went what is that? I don't understand. >> Yeah. So I kept going back again and again and we had I don't want to exaggerate. I'm just trying to rub in the timeline. So my first nine months I would go to Vicrims three to five times a week. I hope that it's not a goal to lose weight through yoga. And in my experience um I shed seven dress sizes. >> Oh wow. In that short period of time, I completely transformed and I was doing nothing else but the ASA one and naturally it didn't happen immediately but naturally my urgency to stuff myself then purge it out and my desire for like really heavy foods just naturally it was effortless stopped maybe because I was hot as well. I was craving like oh let's have a salad and a fresh juice and so my whole everything just began shifting. without effort. >> Yeah. >> And this is in Canada. It gets really cold there. >> Yeah. >> What time of year did you start Big Room? And where are you from in Canada? >> But where was this in Canada? >> Yeah, I'm from Vancouver, BC. Uh, so that the winters aren't too harsh. I'm trying to remember. I think it would have been autumn. It would have been fall. And so the days are getting colder and I could go to this cozy hot room with these fiery teachers, you know, and I just started obviously going, you know, quite excessively >> is big room. I don't have a ton of experience with it, just dabbling and um it has a whole controversy now. Big room himself. >> Oh yeah. >> So I veer harshly away from it at that point. But it is the community in Abram Studios similar to those in say Byasa or Haka Studios or one like Alchemy where they kind of outer a mixture of like is it the same or is it different because it's just one bigram is one style set poses at least how I learned it. >> Yeah. >> So I wondered if that changed the aspect of community or >> I'd say it didn't. I mean what Bikram is is 26 asas and two breathing exercises. That's it. Um once you're a yoga teacher there is an advanced sequence that you get to practice with the yoga teachers outside of uh studio hours but there were many like events and gatherings and meditation nights and there was an absolute sense of creative I mean that became my whole world uh was it encouraged for me to learn other styles of yoga very very strong like purist is the way there's no other way. >> Um but in terms of like community gathering and exploring meditation and just chatting about asas and pasop and health that was all there. It's a beautiful thriving community. >> Is it still there? >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Nice. What's the name of the studio? >> Uh my home studio. >> Yes. >> Called Vicram yoga on the drive >> and it's still called Vicram because a lot of studios attached to it went to hot yog. >> Yes it is. All right. So what the first thing you certified in was Vicram? >> Yep. And you went to Los Angeles. You went to Vicram. >> I went to Vicram himself. >> How long before the scandal and controversy was it? >> Oh, years. Yeah. Yeah. I trained uh so I graduated November of 2025. That was one of the last ones in the headquarters of LA. After that, they moved it to Mexico and then Hawaii. Um, in my own experience, my own limited experience, >> what I saw at the training is what I saw at Netflix on the bit criminal documentary. I don't see any exaggeration. >> No, >> that was my experience. >> Yeah. >> Okay. Yeah. >> So, the same It's cool. Cool. I liked how they unpacked the lineage of like week one it was this, week two it was this, week three it was this, you know, like everyone kind of had their own moment of but it was like this trend that followed all of the yogis of week one being like overwhelmed in week two but there was also kind of this um um >> there's always in I think a form of >> yoga meditation spirituality a sense of like worshiping the guru you know and um that danger of getting too close to like they can do nothing wrong. But Bickram really was known to encourage that. He's on record saying, you know, I am nearly godlike. We all are technically. I'm not saying that, but like I think that his hubris and, you know, kind of um inflated ego to understate it was encouraging that aspect. Did you see that aspect in your training? Okay. So, it was kind of like Bickram his everything and Dunba. I mean, he sat on a stage raised up high with air conditioning glowing at him. Did you see this? Excellent. Excellent. Because to learn in that environment is truly to put your own ego aside. I got to tell you, if I'm in a room and someone's got AC and I don't, even if my practice is to be hot, I would be a little like, what's happening? You know, and that's egoless for you to be learning and just doing that, right? >> H I want to be unfiltered. And I'm also aware of how um upset some of my dear friends get who still teach Bickroom. But without sharing all the details um I witnessed him fat shame his wife in front of all of us repetitively while calling her up on stage. He shamed the youngest woman in our training. She was attacked late at night in a laundry room because our days wouldn't end until 2:00 or 3:00 in the morning. Um and he pulled her up on stage and shamed her in front of everyone saying that it was her fault that she was attacked. >> No. >> So there was huge huge things that if I was the woman that I am now in that training, I would have spoken out loud. >> Yeah. >> But in that particular circumstance, I was 24 turning 25 and um I kept quiet and I listened. I was also told by Bickram to take out my piercings. He didn't like me injuring my temple in that way. >> Obviously, I couldn't take off my tattoos, but I took out all my piercings and uh >> I do regret that. I remember after the training thinking, "Wow, I I really surrendered my sense of identity um for the sake of this man." >> It's a fine line. I've done really beautiful ardent studies and and programs that I still subscribe to that rode a very tentative fine line between abandoning self-ego and acquiescing >> to schedule or or rec requirements in order to reach the goal. you know, like doing a training that requires silence for the first half of the day, that can be seen as, you know, um, dangerous or, you know, something like that. But when they say, "Trust me, do this, and you do it and you receive a reward," it's very difficult to decide from the offset, from the jump, as to which thing that you give up, you might regret later on when you're really trying to subscribe to the entire system to see if it works. >> You know what I'm saying? It takes like I I just feel like it takes a higher level of advanced reasoning, certainly an older mind to look at something and say, "Hey, I kind of disagree with this." Because the taking out of the piercings at 24, I would have thought this is his system. This is what I do, you know, and then looking back at it, I would have been like, that was an identity thing. I like that kind of a thing. But I do understand like the navigating of all of that. So, you did Bickram. Did you go back to um Canada and teach? Yeah, I'm smiling. I just have to comment that we're both wearing green. >> And so in Vickrim's whole training, you're not allowed to wear green because one of his friends actually did pass away in a fire, which is so sad. He was wearing green. So it was a rule. You're not to wear green ever in a Bitcoin class. >> It's my favorite color. >> Me, too. So now I'm wearing all green. >> Okay. Did you hold up like that kind of a prophecy in your studio when you started teaching? >> Yeah. my studio owner. I love him to pieces. He's still a dear friend and he was my first mentor. Um and yeah, he wanted to respect the centric cities. >> Y Okay. Yeah. >> So, I was really blessed in that on my graduating day at the Bickham Training, I had multiple studio owners from Vancouver in the room kind of watching. I didn't know that they were scouting for teachers >> and um I just had a good day. You know those days where you're like, "Oh yeah, I did well." And so when I got home, we didn't have cell phones back then, >> right? >> It was a answer phone, little plastic answer phone. >> Answering machine. >> Answering machine. Sorry. The phone was by the machine. And um yeah, I had two messages on my answering machine being like, "Got you scheduled on tomorrow 6:00 a.m. next class 9:00 a.m. on Don Mar Street in Vancouver." And I was like, like I didn't even have enough time to call back to be like, "No, I can't." So that's how I started teaching. Literally the day after I call it, I was straight in my >> And my first two classes were awful. >> [ __ ] >> Awful. I literally got booed. No, I was going to say like it was awful for you, not for them. I mean, in your head. No, >> you did not get hurt. >> Oh, yeah. Front room said this fabulous woman. I can still see her face, her long blonde hair. And she just went right up in front of me. I'm on a stage. Oh, yeah. Cuz I had to teach on a stage. She went, "Boo." And then she said, "Learn your less from your rights before you teach a class." And stormed out of the room with her yoga mat. And I was just standing there on stage like 25 years old being like >> inhale arms up like >> but I kept going >> and that was my initiation into the experience of public teaching. >> Baptism by firem by fire. >> That's rough. So how long did you teach Bickim for until you started picking up her styles and what like incited you to do that? >> Well firstly I committed to one year. That was my personal commitment. I'm going to teach for one year at my home studio and do nothing else. Like I'm all in. >> No other day job. >> No. >> Okay. >> I was a full-time teacher. So I was doing two to three classes a day, 5 to six days a week. Like I was in. Um and while I was doing that, I was young. I like to experiment with myself. So I did a one-year complete cleanse detox. Like no wheat, no animal, no dairy, no alcohol, no caffeine. Like I went >> during the first year of teaching. >> Yeah. >> Okay. So you cut everything out that could possibly be conceived as harmful. >> Yeah. or cloud my perception. Oh, maybe not sugar. >> Okay. >> Okay. Okay. I thought you >> Oh, I see you. Yeah. >> But almost everything else. And um I went into a deep sort of practice with myself where I was meditating and just saying >> spirit like I hand myself over. If I'm meant to do something different or be somewhere else, tell me and I will go there. >> So I had this really clear dream of walking along the Corandil Peninsula in New Zealand. And in the dream, I was walking along with sand and I looked out to the ocean and I saw another version of me coming out of the ocean and the two of us merged in New Zealand and my third eye opened. >> Wow. >> So when I woke up from that dream, the cool thing about Vickrims is they've got an international website. So I immediately looked up yoga studios in New Zealand. I emailed all of them and said they have to come to New Zealand. I don't know why, but I'm following this call. If you need someone, let me know. No exaggeration. The next day, I don't even get an email. I get a phone call from a studio owner who's like, "I need you now. I need you full-time. Don't worry about a work permit. You can sleep in the yoga studio for free. So, you don't need to worry about rent. I'll give you cash in hand when you get on a flight." And so, I left Canada at 25 years old. I was a one-year yoga teacher. I had a hundred bucks. I packed my backpack. I bought like an outbound flight to Australia. It was just the cheapest flight that I could find. And I went and taught Vikram in New Zealand for like a year and a half. >> Did you sleep in the yoga studio? >> How was that? >> It was tough. >> Yeah, >> it was tough. >> Was it just your own little room or were there multiple teachers sleeping? >> Yeah, at one point there was another teacher, a male teacher, and that was very uncomfortable for me as a young girl, what came up and what I went through. And um >> it was another initiation by fire. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> To stand up for my boundaries and Yeah. Yeah. So, not pleasant. Um I'm glad that I went through it though because there was something in that experience. It's like I will do this for everything and I will do this for nothing. It's like I'm teaching yoga whether I have money, whether I don't have my whether I have a home, whether I don't have a home. Like this is my path. Yeah. That's what it felt like for me. Um so at that point I fell in love with a DJ. Excellent. >> Yes. >> Excellent. And in that DJ had family in Australia in Sydney, Australia. So he bought us flights one Easter to go to Oz. And when we went to Oz, I was Brim obsessed. So I looked up like the closest Vicram studio. >> Which city in Oz? >> Uh Sydney. >> Uhhuh. >> Yeah. So we were in Balain and I went to the Balain Bicrim Studio and it was just apicious. I walked in, the studio owner was there signing in the class. He looked very stressed out. So are you okay? And he's like, "The teacher is a no-show." And I said, "No, >> I'm a certified Vicrim teacher. I came here to practice. >> You went to take a class and they said, "The teacher's a no-show." >> Yeah. So, I just walked straight up the stairs. >> I taught I taught a class. Yeah. He's like, "I'm going to come practice and like check you out." So, he checked me out. There was no bells and whistles. It was all lovely. Shanti, I had a free pass while I was there. I flew back to New Zealand with my partner. Um, I felt a little bit lost, a little bit dead. I knew that my relationship was fading. And then voila, I get this email from the same yoga studio in Australia. And they're like, would you fly here, run our studio for us, teach 10 to 12 classes a week? Same thing. We'll pay you under the table. >> Yes. >> Don't worry about papers. Sleep in our house, take our car. We're going to England to get married. So, like, we need you for like two months. So, I did it. I quit my job and I jumped on a plane and that brought me to Australia. And so once I was with them managing their studio and they flew back married from England, um we all had this amazing brain wave of changing the studio from not just Vikram but offering yin and flow. It was a deep calling for me because I wanted to be able to patience and variety like they come so regimented and you cannot deviate from the dialogue that I could see >> I could see injured people but I couldn't help them cuz I wasn't allowed to deviate. >> Right? >> So that was my incentive to want to study other styles of yoga. Um and because I'd given my all to this studio, they gifted me a 200 hour teacher training in venyasa flow. >> Nice. >> So yeah. Did you take it through a Sydney studio? Did you research your favorite person? How did you vet them? >> No, they chose. >> Okay, >> so they chose it was to do with different companies merging. Um, and that person is Nicole Walsh. I would love to say her name cuz she's a wonderful, wonderful yoga teacher. She's the real deal. And she used to own Body Mind Life Studios. And now she has a studio called In Yoga. >> Yeah. Is she um can you describe the style as ha venyasa? What kind of a 200 hour? >> It was soft venyasa. Okay. One of her teachers is Shiva Ray. So very kind of fluid. Um little bit of hata integrations in terms of like meditation and also the limbs of yoga were being taught. Um which by the way were not taught in Bikram at all. I didn't learn any >> limbs of yoga. >> Four limbs. Yeah. >> Yeah. I know. Yeah, Vicram's a whole world. >> It's a whole world unto itself. >> It is. And it's it it has like it still has a really amazing following. It's now called, at least in the USA, it's called a hot yoga. >> Hot yoga. Yoga 26. Mocha yoga. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> It's got new names. >> So, what um you certify, you bring in this new softer venyasa style yin as well. >> Yin came about two more years after that. in the same Australia studio. >> So you were there for 3 years? >> 10. >> 10. >> Oh wow. That's family. >> Yeah. >> That's a moment. So you're there. You're teaching different styles as you move. I'm guessing your own particular vibration and um flavor of yoga changes. >> Yes. >> Personally. >> Yes. >> And so why did you leave there and where did you go next? Uh, I left there because I got divorced. >> Married in Australia. >> Yeah. >> Found an Aussie. >> Found an Aussie who kicked up into a handstand, fell over in my class, hit a wall. I went to help him, and that was the beginning of our journey. >> Mhm. >> Yeah. So, married, divorced, but the marriage was a part of my visa. Um, so when we decided to separate, long story, I'm not going to bore you on this podcast with it, but basically I had 10 days to pack up 10 years of my life. >> Yeah. So I found myself >> traumatizing. >> It was very traumatizing. >> Yeah. >> Another initiation by fire >> theme of my life. >> So I found myself back in Canada after at that time it would have been 12 years. So like two in New Zealand roughly 10 years in Australia. Um, I'm on my mom's couch. She lives in a studio apartment. I'm broke, divorced. >> What the hell am I doing with my life? >> Um, the yoga scene in Vancouver was very saturated. >> Um, I was super blessed and that I was given opportunities and they did go well, but something just didn't quite click. Um, there was a particular conservative vibe that I felt >> in Vancouver >> and my natural way of teaching is is quite raw. I'd say I'm I hope I'm professional, but I'm quite unfiltered and honest >> and um I didn't feel that that was the right resonance. >> So, I was deeply dreaming of Bali. I've got cool stories as to why I was dreaming about Bali. But um essentially, I just hammered this yoga studio. I started emailing them like every 3 days non-stop and they were like, "Why should we hire you? We get like 250 emails a day from teachers around the world." >> Yes. >> They looked at my Instagram. and they're like, "Yeah, it's okay. It's not that flashy." And um as fate would have it, Les Leventhal, who's a very famous teacher, good friend, he messaged and said, "Persia, I'm coming to Vancouver. Can you connect me with all the studio owners that you know?" And I said, "Absolutely." And I I I don't like to ask a favor in return, but in this case, could you hook me up in Bali? Like, I have to teach there. I have to go. And so he said, "Well, where do you want to teach?" It's like radiantly alive. And he's like, "You gotcha." So he emailed the owners. Within a day, I got a response back. Can you fly here? We'll give you a one-mon trial. Let's check you out. >> And so really, I was only in Canada for like 8 n months and then I left. Um, >> is Radiant alive in Ubud? >> Yeah. >> Okay. I think I have It's near yoga barn. >> So they sponsored me. >> That started my Bali chapter and it's been 7 years of teaching full-time in Bali. Where have you taught here? >> Pretty much just Radiantly Alive. I had a brief stint at Yoga Barn in the pandemic. Was very quiet then. >> And then the moment Alchemy opened like I was I was one of the first in the original team here. >> And Alchemy opened 2021, >> I believe. So >> I don't I don't know. >> Maybe 2022 around. Yeah, >> somewhere in there. Yeah. So Ashton was just doing pop-up classes by himself in the Durga Dome and then he hired it was four of us. So we were the original five. >> You, Emma, >> Christa, >> Christa, and Ashton. >> And Ashton and ID. >> ID was also the original tribe. >> Original tribe. >> Yeah. >> So cool. >> Yeah. >> So you started teaching here. Do you still teach at Radiant Alive? Radiantly Alive. No. >> No. That ended. >> I'm such a loyalist to my own detriment. Tell me about starting up your own thing. What what was the inspiration for that? What was the catalyst and how did you design it when you went to start up your training? >> Great question. Uh the original catalyst I'd say was the seed was planted when I was in Canada. Um I didn't want to leave Australia and I was so attached to my yoga community there that when I got to Canada the grief was unbearable. For the first time I I questioned living. Mhm. >> I've only ever experienced that once and it was at that time. And then interestingly, my lungs shut down. >> Uh, and it might sound dramatic, but I literally couldn't stand up or breathe. I had to be rushed to emergency hospital. Um, after multiple tests, I found out that I had a rare form of pneumonia. It was called walking pneumonia. >> Um, I believe that it was very much me processing so much shock, change, and grief that my body was just shutting down. It's too much to process. Yeah. >> So, at that time, I had to quarantine. My mom was away traveling. I was completely alone. And in those 14 days alone, I could barely do a thing. I couldn't eat. I had shingles at night. I was shaking, sweating. >> So, I just started to like roll onto the floor in the living room, get myself into yin poses. And I knew a little bit about Chinese medicine. And I just intuitively researched more. So, I started doing breath with sound, >> using the sounds of chong, particularly to clear my lungs. like that was my focus >> and within two weeks I was 100% back to normal >> even the doctors were like how did you do that >> so I had this profound experience and I think that that was my first seed to be like whoa yin yoga with Chinese medicine heals there's something here I didn't know what >> fast forward I'm teaching in Bali the pandemic happens it was such a privilege to be in Bali at that time And for the people that weren't here, it was apocalyptic. >> 80% of all foreigners left. 85% of all businesses shut down. >> I went from getting paid a a rate that I could live on with yoga to $2 a class. And I'm teaching two to three classes a week. So, I'm earning $6 a week of income. That's not enough to buy food for like really more than a day or two. >> Mhm. Um, so I got creative really fast and I'm like, how can I make enough money to like pay my rent and I created at first um a 4-week program. It was called a month of Sundays. So for four Sundays in a row, people could sign up as a package and I pre- themed it out with like storytelling and mythology and yoga. And that took off. I'll be honest. I went from making $2 a class to let's say I charge like $15 a class and I had 65 students. >> Okay. >> So suddenly my income >> from the from the jump >> from the jump right off the bat. >> Oh brilliant >> was my first response. So I was like >> so a month of Sundays. Yeah. >> It's filled with philosophy, some storytelling. What's the basis? What is it based around? Did you have a trajectory where this week then this week then this week and then the fourth week you leave them with something? Did you design it that way or did you just design it from inspiration? How did it come together? >> Mostly from inspiration because there were many series like it went so well that I just kept going. Um but yes, I initially started with the foundations of mythology which for me is you start anything with Ganesha. >> So the whole first week was all about Ganesha giving mantras, stories, practices. Um then the next week I believe I did Shiva and Parvati. the story of like okay how did Ganesha come into being. Um and then from there I went to Lakshmi because it was the pandemic and I was like oh god you know and on that series I believe I completed with Shiva and Sati and like the aspect of letting go. >> Where did you do all of your basis with this historical like >> lineage on your own? >> Yeah. >> Did was there any online schooling? Did you just research it? It was just kind of ad hoc. Whatever you were curious about following it through. >> Totally ad hoc. >> Okay. >> It the passion was natural and spontaneous for me. I think in my own personal life in that um I had a very broken relationship with my dad. And the only way that we threaded our relationship over the years is he's a storyteller, a musician, and a poet. >> So he would send me cassette tapes of him sharing stories from that side of the family's country of origin. So he would send me Ukrainian and Irish folktales. >> So in my history I have a connection of like stories can bridge the gap of separation between two people and that caused me to really want to study the stories of India or the myths the cosmology. Um, and honestly, I did that by myself because at that period of time in yoga, it wasn't popular. It wasn't encouraged, >> right? >> And even at my favorite studios in Sydney, they were like, "We love you. You're super popular, but like can you sit skip out the Sanskrit and like don't talk about deities, just talk about like >> Yeah. >> Asa and like give more global themes that all the corporate people feel relaxed and that it's not religious in any way." Mhm. >> So, it wasn't until I got to Bali that I had permission. That's crazy because after having taken classes from you for three months, one of like the main themes that pulls through for me so powerfully from you as an instructor is um you're leaning on um philosophy and story and then also um your love of Sanskrit, you know, and and I've heard you say a million times and maybe it's because I'm in agreement, but you're like, why would we use the English word? Listen to how beautiful it is. you know, all of that. Like, that's you for me. So, to hear people asking you to pull back is like, "Oh, why? That's where she shines. I love that." Um, so you came to Bali and you were welcomed into doing that. And then you did a month of Sundays where you really got to lean in on that piece of yourself. Yes. >> I'm guessing it refined. It helped you sustain yourself during um a global pandemic. >> Yep. >> Did you continue with it? And after that, is that what spawned like I'm going to do the online course with this? So, it was a three-step process. Online classes was easier for me to be like, "How am I going to do this? How do I buy mics? How do I record? How do I send out recordings and receive money?" So, I did that and then once that was running really smooth, I think I did three rounds of it. I then launched um at that time it was called weaving the theme. So, then I launched a one-mon program for yoga teachers only. It was exclusive and it was like now that you've seen Amos, you've seen how I teach with mythology and classes, let's look at how you could do that. >> How are you going to find myths and pull out symbols and weave them into asas and >> I love that everyone needs it. Is this still being offered? This is the one thing that every yoga instructor I've ever talked to, I'm certified, never taught, you know, all of that. Um but uh this is the one thing that's in common from all of my colleagues when I certified four years ago as well as everyone I run into is like but how do I get to the point where I integrate what they are doing these very sage guru like yogi instructors how do I learn which stories I want to authentically pull in and not just mimic them but what resonates with what I'm doing because every yoga instructor is sharing a very specific brand of yoga and it's because yoga is so personal. They are reaching an audience which we'll get into in just a second. Okay. >> But that notion is something every yoga instructor I've ever heard. So it's online still and it's you talk to them about like what stories are good for you to bring in. Is that still available? Cuz that is something everyone talks about. >> Great. Well, thank you for inspiring me because absolutely I've created a new version. >> Okay. Okay, so it's now called the thread. Uh, and I've squashed it and condensed it and made it more streamlined with tons of like >> I don't like using the words do and don'ts, but just to make it quick. Like these are epic things of how you can storyt tell globally. And these are like the don'ts when you make it too personal >> and people can project and >> latch on to you and Yeah. that all sorts of warpy things can happen. >> Yes. >> Um, so it's new. It's called the thread. I've ran it live twice and now I'm working for online. I want to offer it online. >> Brilliant. >> Perfectionists working it out in the background. >> Get it out there. >> Coming soon. >> Yes. >> Okay. So, let's get into um alchemy really quickly and then I want to tap into um the fun stuff, the controversial stuff about yoga in the latter day as we see it. Okay. So, um, love affair with alchemy. I'm assuming it's ongoing, but also, how do you describe this is personal, but you have to I would like to request you be brash and brave and just like lay it out there like for you, what is Alchemy Yoga Center like just as you see it. I'm not asking you to brand it, but like how would you describe it to somebody as opposed to any other yoga studio in the world? Yeah, for me, Alchemy Yoga Sensor is absolutely authentically about walking your talk. Full stop. So, this is the first time for me where I get to work with a team of teachers who genuinely practice 100%. >> Yeah, >> they're they're doing the practices at home. They're doing the pujas. They're continuing to study. And so I get to stand with my chest really proud beside people who are literally practicing what they are offering to other people in the room. And sadly that's not the norm >> ever. Yeah. >> In my humble opinion. I have gone to I feel like the majority of classes from my beloved yoga instructors in San Diego. Love y'all. Um it like seriously I love them. But I'm like you made this up as you went through this class. you've never practiced that transition wasn't possible and you figured it out as I was trying to go through it, you know, like that kind of a thing. And it's no shame. It's like that's cool. That's yoga for a lot of people, but I just believe that someone who practices what they do, it's when it's imparted, it's just it can be life transforming. You know, it's it's a it's a transformative potential that gets laid out and put away if it's not practiced. >> Yep. It's a transmission. >> Yeah, quite literally. It's a transmission. So, I felt that even before alchemy. I bumped into Ashton outside of the alchemy restaurant one day. Like, we just went smack. And I remember looking at him and I had this voice that was like, "Your life's about to change." And I was like, "That's weird." And uh and then he reached out to me and was like, "Hey, can we grab a a matcha and a lunch?" >> We had lunch. He told me the vision of alchemy, but it's based in the tria. It's based in Kashmir Shabayism which I knew enough of to get turned on but I wasn't steeped in it. >> Okay. >> Cuz I'd been teaching you know Patanjali's yoga and more modern universal styles of yoga. Um so he told me the vision of the five elements that alchemy really wanted to stand apart that they were very specific to only have senior experienced teachers. M >> um and for me just being in teacher training after teacher training like facilitating and lovingly pumping out hundreds and hundreds of teachers >> to be invited into a studio that felt >> elite not in an exclusive way but just in this like real high caliber like this is really thought out stage. Yeah. I was like oh this is what I've been waiting for. So yeah, I came back to public classes through alchemy through alchemy opening and I've been teaching here just here exclusively um since they opened. >> And you're saying they they walk the walk >> 100%. >> Walk the talk. >> Who like Ashton and also my girls, but like who you see in the room teaching is who you see in the office is who you see with their family is who you see out in the street. >> It's the same person. >> Okay. >> Yeah. >> Excellent. I get that vibe from here as well, you know, and I've gone to easily 30 yoga studios all over the world. That's not a lot for a lot of people, but I've covered a lot of continents, you know, and this one has an authenticity so that even if you disagree with it, you don't disagree with something that's inauthentic, you know, it's not a double layer disagreement. It can just be kind of there. Yeah. >> So, and there's a continuity between there's a complete diversity with instructors, but there's something about the core platform of like the ethos behind all of them, the axiomatic core >> that feels like it's still the same tenor. Like will is so wildly different from ID, you know, let's like let's take the two polar opposites for me, but they both have a consistency. It feels like a pedagogical consistency for me that is there and it feels like it's here, you know, it's in the architecture. Like I can feel it. I'm not being woowoo at all. I can really prove it if I'm given enough time to write it in a thesis, you know, and so I do believe that everybody is imparted with that even after a couple of classes. So I love that you said that because I feel that too. M >> I want to know I love this this term of um kind of sage group of instructors because that's who I pummel the hardest with some of my questions about the exclusivity of yoga in general but right now just coming at it from a USA Europe um and Southeast Asia standpoint >> yoga is filled Vietnam, Bali, um Lao, Thailand, it's all filled with um pretty socioeconomically wellto-do individuals. And so there's an there is a privilege to it in that level. >> But my question for you is >> what do you think the vibe in yoga right now in Bali is leaning towards? Do you think that it has gone through kind of a change since the pandemic? And where do you see even if alchemy is not part of it like there are a million yoga studios starting certification courses and things like that in Bali right you have the big ones in like tango like the practice and things like that but then there's a million little micro ones popping up that have like their own retreat center and like this and that because it's like it's become a booming industry but um do you think that the vibe in Ubud or Bali has changed because of that? Do you see like a curve? There was this Lululemon just, you know, right after the pandemic in San Diego where the the tribe was like the Starbucks um person, you know, who was clad in Lululemon and knocking out their like um weighted yoga, whatever you want to call that, just kind of looking for this hybrid. I was like, I don't even know what this is, you know, yoga. No, no shade. That's them. That's their thing. But like it was transforming yoga into this place where I was like I don't think I can do yoga here anymore. And then I found a studio that was like kind of retaining that the flow that I appreciate. But so do you think that there's a change in Ubud in Bali that's happened since the pandemic? Do you see a trend happening? >> Yeah. Well firstly before I share I was that person who drank Starbucks and more Lululemon. >> Excellent. Love that. Lululemon ambassador back in the day and I would have my matches and so I understand it and I lived it >> and it's not what I choose to do anymore. But I just want to say that that was also me. >> I knew you. I knew you well. >> Yeah, you knew me well just like our outfits. >> Yes. >> Um absolutely there's a change. I wouldn't I don't know if I can say exclusively to Bali. Um but yes, what I have noticed firstly post pandemic is the difference of touch. Yoga's changed around the world to assist people, to touch people, to make adjustments. This is a whole art form that is very much faded to the background. >> It might come back. I don't know. Um, but even at alchemy, like I love to touch in general, it's just not encouraged here. It's not, you'll notice that we're not getting in and assisting people a lot. >> Yeah. >> So, that's shifted due to the pandemic for obvious reasons. germs spreading, touching one body, touching the next, and then for deeper reasons of uh there was so much trauma for people and people's nervous systems that coming up in someone's space now requires time, trust, and permission. >> Yeah. >> Which in Bali, >> it's one of the things that's like, this is a strong word to say, it's a lovehate for me teaching here >> is that it's so transitional. It's like I will just get to understand a little bit of somebody's body or just get to hear a little bit of their story and then they're on a flight and then the next group comes in and then there's a and then they go and then the like it's just >> it's got this energy to it which on one hand is exciting cuz I get to meet people from all over the world and on the other hand it's actually tiring >> because it's like really raw and open and connected and then gone >> just keeps so so there's that and Now Bali is shifting radically for a handful of reasons but um it Bali is turning into a place now more for the affluent >> and for the privileged. So now the clientele is changing. >> Mhm. >> And so now what's being offered is changing to meet the needs of the clientele. >> So um I think that there's a shift on exclusivity. Um, I'm only at Alchemy, so there's so much emphasis on us to like hold strong with philosophy and storytelling, which I love. So that's there. >> Um, so I can't really speak for other studios, but what I know from my dear friends, which are all of my best friends in Bali, a lot of them just bang out the same class because 80 to 85% of their room are tourists. >> Mhm. And out of that 85% maybe 30 to 40% are boyfriends or husbands or friends or family members just getting dragged in by someone. So they've got no background in yoga whatsoever. And you've just kind of got these like wild rooms where you're like >> if I bust out Shiva right now and bust out this more complicated asa like it's just what's the point >> right >> because there's not a readiness in the room. Mhm. >> So, I think a lot of the yoga at like the big studios that I've seen here, um, it's quite basic. >> Yes. >> It's quite foundational and the teacher is on loop. >> Mhm. >> Just repeating same class, same playlist cuz hey, nobody can tell cuz it'll be the next group of people. And I think that there's sadly a bit of um >> stagnancy with that. Like I think that there's a lack of maybe >> inspiration on the teacher's part. >> Mhm. >> Yeah. >> And you can feel that. Yeah, >> in a class I think you know I think that the yogi can absolutely I can feel when someone's gone through I would hope someone could feel it from me you know when something's wrote and you've done it a million times that's the word >> it's a stretch to make it sweet and special you know school teachers in the states talk about this like there's actual programs after 5 years to get them kind of rejuvenated because they're teaching the same thing >> you know and um I think that uh that is like a danger. I thought a lot about the fact that like 90% of the clientele is one-time comers, maybe three, >> you know, and how it would approach. And I thought about that as I was coming for 3 months >> because it is a stretch and it is interesting to see and to tell um how it's going to be received. What communities globally like if you think about you clearly are a yogi, it's your life. It's you've subscribed to it. So I'm thinking you've thought about communities that would be hyper served by yoga that it simply would never touch. So for me I think a lot about um disability and the disabled and how little how few of those populations are being touched by yogic principles and how many could be benefited >> you know um from pranayyama to like just very simple yogic um poses. I truly believe like with physiootherapy and things like that like I know most physical therapists in the United States get yoga training just because it is important but could do you know have you ever played around with other communities that you've thought it'd be cool if yoga was brought to them I think it would really affect them >> um firstly I feel inspired hearing you talk and absolutely and for me in my own unique path I've been solely interested in yoga teachers like that's my specific niche I'm really interested in the yoga teachers journey So that's where all of my energy goes is post-secary education for teachers to keep them inspired. Um but yeah, there's there's an enormous amount of room and I'll tell you that behind the scenes the few people that I know who are school teachers and that do work with disability, they are teaching pranayyama, breath work, meditation, but they have to do it secretly. >> Yes. to maintain receiving a paycheck and to keep their job because still there's some weird discomfort with I'm not sure maybe it's an idea that yoga might be religious or that there's religious tones coming in >> and um >> oh gosh now with what's happening in America >> yeah so there there's a bit of a um I think there's a bit of an underground movement I would say where it's getting snuck in >> Absolutely. Yeah, >> I think once insurance companies in America because we don't have socialized healthcare, that's a whole bag of worms, starts to cover it, they started covering um chiropractor, you know, some of them cover acupuncture and those blew up once it happened. And the health benefits, all they have to be proven is that it will save them money, you know, and I think the same can be said for um a lot of the state funded like Medicare things as well. I always think of like at risk youth like a yoga class once a week if the after school paid for programs by the government. Come on, it would be instrumental. Their stress levels, their CNS is so high, you know, when when you're afraid of being jumped on the way home from school and things like that to be able to like lower yourself down for an hour. There's just so many different pockets of population that I'm like really help them out. you know, they're not having five Starbucks a day. They're literally in fear for their life. And that's why their CNS is so high. I just feel like those kinds of communities. I'm like, wonder how we can get it into there. You know, sneak it in, back door, whatever. Don't call it yoga. Call it a moment with yourself. Like all of those things. But um yeah, I wonder what do you feel is transitioning with yoga like maybe even globally that you disagree with like is there any new trend that you're like no I certified with it I think what he might hate to be called a purist but um I can battle him uh and uh he was like playlists are ridiculous. He was hat and he was just like that is like oh yeah man. He was like yoga is not about vibing out. He was like this is like an actual like spiritual path. It aligns the chakras. It like it it makes you whole you know all of that panel. Um but he was and he said by the time you're done with my training you'll hate playlists. And I was like no it's a lie. I love music. And I went back and I was like, okay, yeah, I mean, it is there is something different there. I can understand what he's saying. And there aren't studios that are like, this is music yoga, this is non-m music yoga. So music became a trend. It's not going anywhere. Um, but like can you see other trends come creeping into yoga studios around the world? Or for teachers, teacher trends that you're like, I don't love that. The posturing when you're, you know, um, you're taught forever to put your heels as close to your bum as possible and everyone's like, oh, we're not all shaped that way. just put them under your knees when you're going into bridge and things like that. Like they've a lot of the cues have gone away because people came in and were like anatomy doesn't work like that. >> So do you see trends that are creeping in that are either good or bad for yoga teachers? >> There was so much in that. >> There's like a thousand different >> whatever you want. >> Um >> okay firstly I just want to start it's like a slight deviation but it's on theme with what you're talking about. Yes, >> I would base who you study with, who you practice with, how are they doing at life. So for me, I gauge is the yoga working based on someone's natural ability to be open and loving, kindness, authenticity, someone that actually enjoys life. And so often when I see dogma coming in, this is the right way, this is the wrong way, there's a hardening and a tightening of the fascia, of the face, of the body, of the mind. >> That's not why I practice yoga. I'm practicing yoga to get free of that limitation of like this is good and that is bad. That's right, that's wrong. So at alchemy and the tra, it's really um moving into where's the third magical thing between these polarities. Uh so for me I do use music. I spend weeks on my playlists. I do use humor as you know I do talk about myself which in some aspects of yoga these are four big faux paws you know like to create laughter when someone's concentrating in an asa to one school of thought is an complete disruption for me. If someone is enjoying the experience of connecting with their body >> through emotions, that's everything. That's the gateway in. >> Yeah. >> And if it's serious and like I've got to override this thing and I've got to overcome my body and I've got to be aligned. It's like the amount of pressure firstly and then also the distortion of control when you're out there in your life. It's got to be this way. It's got to be in this alignment for like it's too much. >> Yeah. >> And I know from direct experience because I I did become that person. Right. >> So that's that's my first thing. Um trends I mean of course yeah it breaks my heart to see the obsession with body image. >> Yeah. >> And yoga breaks my heart and Yeah. I can even feel the emotion rising now. It it blows my mind how common it is for women to approach me, particularly in the studio, >> and they'll come up to me after class, and literally say, "That was the first time I felt welcomed and accepted in a yoga class exactly as I am." >> And I've always asked them why. And I often will get the response, "Look at me." >> And I don't see anything but a beautiful woman. >> Right? >> Sure, there's curves. You know, it'll be a different experience in the ASA because there's flesh. >> We can adapt. Let's get a t-shirt. Let's get a rope. Let's get a strap. We can add some props to like accommodate >> Yeah. >> your body, >> which is your home. It's your flesh. It's your spirit. So, the I think that's what gets me the most upset about yoga is seeing the distortion of this. Yeah. that you have to be skinny and drink green juice and do yoga all day and wear the fancy clothes and the the also look I just got to say it the whole sex thing in yoga bothers me. People have called me out and said it's a limitation but I don't know why I need to read a beautiful deep yoga philosophy and then see like my friend's ass cheeks with a g-string on the beach doing like what's the correlation there? >> No. >> Yeah. So that that annoys me. I feel like it actually detaches the body that's supposed to be included. You know, there's been some kind of a separation, especially with the Instagram yoga movement. It seems like it's more about the body >> than yoga. It's like it's detached it instead of the body being a tool to incorporate yoga. >> Um, and uh, yeah, I don't know. I think that there's it changes with every class. Yoga for me starting out 12 years ago was um filled with women and that was a really welcomed my life's work largely focuses around women, children and non-binary individuals. >> And so going into a community where I could >> um recapture, you know, stability and things like that in a group of women was like really great. Love that men came. Weird that they always want to bust in. It's good for me. It's fine. It's my life. But um there's also like a different thing that changes you know for women when they are around men especially I'm in my 40s. So I come up with a different generation where it's just a little bit different. >> Okay. >> Um but I think that the the sex thing with yoga and then it also incorporating um different things with genders in the class. I don't know maybe the staring. I just I I think communities change with that differently. Like the yoga barn, there's a lot of hooking up that's happening there. And so you can kind of vibe on that, you know, and you're like, "Wow, I didn't want to come to a nightclub. It was supposed to be a yoga class, you know, just like what you're meant to be doing there." And for me, yoga was never about um sexualization. It was kind of the opposite of that. It was like finding the body alone, you know, instead of in pairs. >> Yes and no. >> Mhm. No, I mean I think already again it's >> and I have a huge judge that lives inside of me, >> but it's just all these layers of judgment and I'm hearing this aspect of like, oh well, yoga is meant to be this and it's not meant to be that. I mean already there we've created a separation >> which is the opposite of yoga. >> So what's your version of inclusion when it comes to the sex thing? >> Meeting people firstly where they're at. M >> if it's the sex thing you referenced chakras earlier there are many many frameworks of chakras even the seven chakra model >> is 100 years old maybe slightly older it's very westernized there other chakra models um but it's nobody's fault if someone's second chakra is like really overactive maybe they've had things in their history they're seeking attention >> from the opposite sex or from whatever sexual preference orientation they have. It's not their fault. It's like a hardwired disc in their body and that's what they need. Again, I was one of those people for a long time. >> And yoga helped me, but not through somebody lecturing at me the right way and the wrong way to live my life. >> It helped me because I started to feel these things in my body. And I was like, "Oh my god, >> when did that thing start where I needed so deeply other people's approval?" Oh, it started when my dad took off when I was a little kid. You know, it started when I was seeking male attention anywhere I could get it at any cost, you know. >> So, I'm not always non-judgmental, but now in my 40s, I'm in my mid-40s, I can access compassion. >> Mhm. >> I've taught yoga now almost 20 years. I practiced 22 years. Granted, I actually started when I was 13, so my mom got me into it cuz I was naughty. Um, and it works. >> Yoga works. however it's delivered. So maybe it's going to take a year, 10 years, 15 lifetimes, but if someone's just in the room and practicing and they feel welcome as they are, that's already going to change the frequency. And so just one more point to that, I actually think it's cool that yoga is modernizing in a sense of like I love tradition, but you go to a class in India, it's going to be very um male, female, men do this, women do that. M >> and I've been given a lot of feedback in the last few years from non non-binary. Um could you please use more inclusive language? >> Yeah. >> Could you please use the word they more? Could you please instead say of if you're a man say uh if you are in a male body >> or if you're femalebodied >> here's a variation. And it's been awkward for me but my heart's wanted to do it. So I'm learning to adapt my language to be more inclusive. Um, and if I really believe in that word, well, then that's everyone. Then that's the hot Russian chick with a G-string. >> Yeah. >> You know, doing her like up dog like is going to be her as well. And it's going to be the guy that's coming to pick up because probably he's deeply lonely. >> Yeah. >> Deeply lonely. And that's, you know, it's interesting that you say that because yes, addressing someone where they're at, there's always going to be, you're a teacher, so it's different. As an intendee, as a student, >> there is this like how much do I play into it's not their fault, that's how they're built, too. This is how I'm built. I'm not here for a sexual experience. You know, like it's like that kind of like existing in the same space and meeting yourself and also having compassion with where they're at. think that's like the real trick and I think it's interesting because um I don't see half the I can practice with someone in the studio for a month and they'll be like we yoga together and I was like we do I go in you know and so um that's just me because that's what I'm here for. But um I'm very into it for the meditative like alignment values. But I do think that um in all of life, you know, being able to be different and coexisting together and celebrating that >> or at least um tolerating it is something that we need to practice more, especially in my home country. So I think that like it's it's a good practice to think of that in mind as well. And I think I will think of that more, >> you know, when I see things that I'm like, I don't know if that's my version of yoga. If I want my version of yoga, I should do it alone in my own studio, you know, otherwise we got a lot of other people going on. >> It's the microcosm, right? Yes. Of the macro. >> So that's the actual practice is when you're on the mat and you're like, >> that's the practice. That's where it begins. When you were talking, a girlfriend of mine who teaches yoga, she always says this line to me. She's like, "Stay in your lane, Persia. Stay in your lane." >> So, interpret that as you will. But I love it when you start to divert your energy and judge and assess other people. It's like, "Stay in your lane." >> Yeah. Or you could do the Tibetan Buddhist thing and practice loving them. >> Yeah. As long as it's not an override, >> right? I love that. Okay, two final questions. The first one is I don't know if you're a planner. I'm not suspecting you're like a five-year plan, you know, type a American person. Maybe you are, but um do you have plans for your future? For your future of business, for your future with Bali? And if so, what are they? >> Okay. >> One year plan, five year plans, one month plan. We can play around with the time. >> No, I'm just in a huge change right now that's not public. >> Me, too. Oh well, you know, you can say it's secret. >> Yeah. Yeah. Cool. Um, okay. So, for now, my plan after 20 years of teaching and doing public classes and multiple multiple teacher trainings at at least five different companies and adhering to that brand's idea and concept. Um, yeah, my short-term plan in the next 1 to two years is I really desire to expand my 50hour teacher training. Somachandra uh and create a whole second module so level two and that way I can offer people 100 hours of a yin training um it is post-secary education so it's going way deeper into energetics traditional Chinese medicine um so that's one of my visions uh and then I have other courses that I want to run online also getting approached by studios in Europe so I feel a Europe tour is coming and Um, it's just been incredible to be in Bali. I feel like I've really come into my essence, who I'm really was born here to be as a woman. And Bali's played an enormous role in that. Mhm. >> And uh I think now at almost 45, I'm 44, I'm feeling that transition of like when do I step out of just public classes >> and just really step into mentoring teachers, doing coaching, and doing larger trainings and larger containers. So that's where I'm at right now is that transition. And it's a little challenging because um I love being at Alchemy. >> Mhm. M >> and I love being an Ubud, >> but it's time for me to stretch. >> Zone of genius. >> Yeah. >> Stretching into what you do best. >> Yeah, >> that's cool. It'll only bring happiness, right? Like that's it's a guaranteed even if it's a little uncomfortable along the way. That's interesting. How long have you lived in Bali? >> Seven years full time. >> A shock when you don't get on a scooter. >> I know. I love my scooter. I feel like wherever I go, I might need to buy one. >> You're a half an hour from here. Like that's a lot of scooter driving every day. >> It is now. It's only been three months that I've lived that far away. >> Okay. When you said that, I was like, dude, that's a lot. I haven't gotten on the scooter yet. I don't I don't break that barrier. I walk. >> You do. >> I ride without a helmet. I'm that person that people are judging. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. No helmet. I'm just like >> the universe will take me. >> When I'm meant to go, I'm meant to go. For now, I'm going to listen to my favorite song. Okay, this last one sounds trit and it's not. I promise you. Um, but it sounds infantile because when I wrote it, when I thought of this question, I thought, well, I really want to know that, but it does sound a little, let's say, cheeky. Let's just go there. Lucinda is always saying cheeky and I'm like, I like that more than trite. And I think I can swap the two synonyms. Okay. >> Um, >> so what's your favorite um asa? Do you remember what your favorite asa was starting out? It's going to be some bickerum pose. And um what is it now? Does it change weekly? Mine does. And um it's always what feels good cuz I am such a pleasure junkie. Um I love pain, but I love the pleasure that comes after pain more. >> So cuz pain for me is knowledge. It means growth. I usually and I don't mean horrific pain. I mean struggle. You know when I go through a struggle one to one here >> when I'm in a struggle when I'm in a work push I know me after so many decades and I will succeed I will complete it and in the end there's a sense of ah you know that's what I like but with yoga um usually something that's stretching something that needs to be done like right now it's tranosa why I don't know it's stretching something out that feels really great >> that's a random one because I thought it was a kind of a silly pose and I'm more of a power royal woman, you know, let's handstand. But, um, I'm in these very fun little poses now. So, what is your favorite ASA now? Do you remember what you liked in the beginning? >> Of course, I do. Okay. >> Firstly, triangle is amazing. Trukasana is like one of the foundational asas to help ground any excess energy that's cerebral in the mind. It's one of the most earthbased postures to like bring you back into your feet, into your legs, into your body. So, triangle is amazing. Um, for me it was camel >> from the Vicram series camel, the backbend where you're on your knees. >> For me it was a sensation of like and I was even told the language of like you're opening all of your wheels of light at the same time and I was like, >> you know, I just love back bends. I feel like I was born back bending. I can back bend very easily. I can get out of bed. I can drop back into a wheel. I can do it right now on camera if you want me to. >> Wow. So any and all back bends because they give me a sense of life force energy and again that would match my personality. I love coffee. Before yoga I loved crystal math, you know. I was just like give me the uppers. Um so I like that stimulation. Uh does it change? Yeah. I think similar to you, I use my little morning practice just to open up what's creaky. >> For me now the asa is about getting my energy flowing. It's not destinationbased for me anymore. Um, it's just about harmonizing the flow of myqi. If you'd rather use the word prana. Um, so yeah. >> Are you in tune enough with yourself that you can wake up and be like, "My chi's here. I need to throw this asa to get it moving there." >> Yeah. Almost too much. >> I want that. >> H. It's a lot. >> How long did it take? >> Years at least. >> And it's a lot because you have to answer to it all the time. >> Well, yeah. makes you more sensitive. Like when people are going around talking that they're hyper sensitive. It's a real thing. It's uncomfortable cuz you can feel all the little nuances in your body. It's like you're constantly being talked to. >> Um so it also requires um some experience and adjustment to be able to anchor yourself, find your midline at all times, >> and then feel the nuance and tend to it when it's appropriate. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. but still winning because it's you have this higher level like you know how to solve something that I think so many people don't a stagnation in something you said in class the other day this was supposed to be a light meal and they in a deep bloating meal and they handed me a bowl of tofu and I thought what are you doing this isn't like that >> I want to hit on one last thing that you said yesterday in class >> can I hit on how American you are I love it you're still winning >> to succeed I must go through pain >> that's like a Charlie throwback from 12 years ago winning. I think he said it like 92,000 times. We're definitely cutting that one. >> Winning at yoga. Keep it. Keep it. >> No, cuz you're not winning at yoga. You're winning at like sustaining energy in your body. And I don't think that that can be stressed enough as to like that's superpower. What are you talking about? Tapping into how to solve if you can just focus on the problem and then have the tool to solve the problem. That's superhero status. We're talking Doctor Strange here. Like that's intense, you know? >> Yeah. Yeah. I'm with you. >> So that's why it's winning. It's truly winning. >> Yeah. >> Um >> Oh, maybe I'll just start saying that, Persia. Maybe that'll be my new tagline. >> Um so my final question is in class yesterday, you said um you have a new mantra. Maybe it's one of a million you have right now. You said all is welcome. >> I did. And that stayed with me because um I think you were specifically speaking to a two-day period or a transition period in the cosmological universe right now that's happening. >> Um but all of that aside, I think that that is um applicable to everybody to unpack in their own way, but it would only do good things. >> Absolutely. you know, and it's such an inclusive um the simplistic terms and sayings and things they there's a reason they become bumper stickers. They hit us >> and that one is so strong. How did you come to it and how long has it been your mantra? >> All is welcome since the pandemic. And I'd like to give Tara Brock credit. She said it on one of her podcasts and it just hit me. So, it was like my whole nervous system just >> and now I just say it. I say it when I'm stressed out. I say it when I have to pay taxes. You know, it's like all is welcome. And this moment too when someone confronts me, all is welcome. Mhm. >> It really helps me participate with life um with more stamina and capacity >> rather than in my original yoga practice is it's like life had to be a certain way. I was really controlling my environment as much as I could. This is like all of that's gone. Life is full of wildness and highs and lows and all is welcome. >> Yeah. >> And this moment too. And this moment too. Yeah. >> Yeah. Mhm. I love that. It put me in the same position. I love identifying personal choice, autonomy, and power. >> And when you say all is welcome, it identifies your role in that all. >> When you're welcoming it, you are there with it. You're present. You're sitting with all. You know, there's no hiding. There's no um non-choice. There's a freedom when all is welcome. >> Yeah. >> I love that. >> Yay. I love taking classes from you. It's been a pleasure. Thank you so much for talking with me. >> I'm anchored in my show. >> Thanks for listening to Borderless. I hope you enjoyed this conversation. If you like this episode, please subscribe so that you can continue to hear fascinating conversations as I continue to wander the globe. You can follow us on Instagram at borderless-podcast or head over to our website borderless-podcast.com for more info and updates. This episode was produced by Patricia Kathleen Productions. And a special thank you to the team that makes it all happen. Charie Ternate, Emma Baker, and Finn Wild. Wherever you are in the world, I hope our conversation made you feel a little more seen and connected. Until next time, take good care. [Music]