# If I Wanted To Scale A Service Business In 2026, Here's What I'd Do

Published: 2026-02-15

This is Kyle and Ariel, a couple who runs a business that helps other couples who run businesses. They currently do about $480,000 per year, but they're stressed because it costs too much money to acquire to customers and they're maxed out on time. I'm Alex Trimosey, I own acquisition.com. It's a portfolio of companies that generate $250 million in aggregate revenue per year. And I just have to know a little bit about the couplepreneur scenario since I started acquisition.com and Jim lunch with my wife Layla so I figured they got to fix their offer to make it more valuable to their customers and make it more scalable so that they're not responding to individual text messages 24 hours a day dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum Over the last 12 months, we've generated about $480,000 in revenue, $206,000 in profit, which takes us to about 43% profit margins. Okay, so who do you help? We help entrepreneur couples. So these are couples who either run businesses together or couples where each partner owns their own individual business. Typically, the businesses we work with do about $150,000 annually minimum. And their primary desires are to make more money in business, to work better together as a couple, and to free up more time for each other and their family. Do you know who's the one who tends to be attracted to the message? Is it the female or the male? Usually the woman, yes. For sure. Oh, yeah. I figured. So how do you help them? We help the couple grow businesses as a couple as efficiently as possible. So we do this with two offers. The first is what we call the Rise Together Mentorship. It's a 12-month program that consists of weekly group coaching calls. And this program is really focused on helping the couple work better together and just improve their working dynamic. Our second offer is called the Couplepreneur Accelerator. This is also a 12-month program, but it's much higher touch. And the main focus of that program is developing a business growth plan for the couple that's based on their business model, their strengths together, as well as their schedule, and then helping them and coaching them through the implementation process. We do also have annual live in-person events. Our next one's actually coming up on April 10th and 11th of this year. What's that included with? So we invite all of our clients to that, but we also sell tickets to it as well. Interesting. And you use that as one of the bonuses for both levels? Yes. 100%. Yeah, it's a fast action bonus. It's an incentive, yeah. Interesting. Okay. For offer number two, the couplepreneur accelerator, we customize an action plan based on the couple's schedule, the business model that they want to approach as a couple. So we're heavily customizing an action plan on the front end for offer two. How long does that take? About a total of four to six hours to go through everything and then do a call with them. Yeah. And then the other time constraint in offer number two is the fact that they have access to us in Slack, like periodically throughout the week. Yeah. Periodically. What does that mean? That means at any point they can ask this question. We respond. We tell them we'll respond within 24 to 48 hours, but they do have daily access to us. You're slacking all day. Yeah, pretty much. Ding, ding, ding. We have problem number one, which is that they have given unlimited, unfettered, unrestrained access to them personally, which makes it very hard to actually run a business. So maybe we might be able to sell people something they still find just as valuable that they're not going to use all day, all the time. How do you make money? The Rise Together Mentorship is $5,000 if paid in full or 12 installments of $500 a month. For that, the couples get weekly group coaching calls with Ariel and myself and the rest of the community. What's the split? Oh, it's about 50-50. We also record those calls as well. So we'll take the call recordings, we'll upload them, into a training portal where the couples can watch a replay and they can get access to other templates and cheat sheets as well. We have a private Facebook group for accountability based on the steps that we give the couples per week. And we also do these fun things called quarterly date night challenges. This is where we incentivize the couple to go on at least one date night per week. - Do people like that? - Oh, they love it. It's like their favorite part. - The date night challenge is probably like the number one thing it keeps people buying from us. - Yeah, we're gonna talk about that. So with this cheaper one, basically it's just a weekly call. - Yeah. - Yes. - That's what they get. - The Facebook group's mostly community and then our customer service person holds them accountable. - Oh, okay, let's talk about the second one. - We do the quarterly date night challenges in both programs, but we also do a lot more in the Couplepreneur Accelerator. So that's 25K paid in full, $2,500 a month if they choose the payment plan over 12 months. And that includes quarterly two-on-two private strategy calls where we map out their action plan. It also includes weekly small group coaching calls, which are mostly just Q&A based. And we also hold them accountable to their weekly priorities inside of Slack. This is also where they could ask us questions. If you eliminated Slack, how much time would you get back? Probably what, 40%? Jesus. It's also the cost of disrupting. I will say though, Slack is usually people's favorite thing because it's like having us in their back pocket. I like where you're going with this stuff. We're going to take some axes out. It'll be good. That's music to my ears. Love it. They made the mistake of running out of time on their high touch thing and then making a low touch thing. And the cost to require customers for the low touch thing was the same as the high touch thing, which means all their economics of the business stopped working. And so the real constraint they had originally in the business was that they were supply constrained and so rather than solve the supply constraint They basically just built a whole nother product what they probably should have done is just say I wonder if we could sell the same thing without all of the demand on the backside for our time if we did that we could sell three times as many people so cool do that if you were to talk to my team You would know that the number one question I asked when they just vomit a whole bunch of information on me is I just say like, what problem are we solving? When they decided to start this other product, they might not have been clear about the problem they were solving or ask the second question, which is, can we just solve this problem in another way that doesn't include us starting an entirely new business, an entirely new acquisition strategy, making another product? And the answer is yes. So how do you get customers? So we use a challenge funnel, which means we use Facebook ads. We run to a five-day free virtual challenge that we host inside of a Facebook group. And then we on that challenge we do teaching training Q&A and then we lead to a sales how long is each of the sessions one hour? And what's the drop-off between day one and do two on average we go from about nine percent down to four to five percent you lose half between day one and day two okay and you're getting only nine percent of people to show up to day one yes Okay. So we'll do about six of those challenges per year. And our average ad spend per challenge is about $19,440. We do also get some occasional sales from some other places, one of which is guesting on other people's podcasts. We also have a setter on our team who will reach out to people via social media messenger and book calls for us. And then we host our annual in-person events, which some sales can come from as well. What percentage come from? Top versus bottom? I'd say 90 to 95%. We really would love to get Alex's feedback on this challenge funnel because we spend a lot of money on these challenges. Sometimes they make money, but other times we'll lose money and have to spend months recouping the costs. Okay, so what are the problems? So we have three primary problems. Our first is our cash flow cycle, which means it can sometimes take months for us to make back the money that we spend on new customer acquisition. - Tough. - Our second big problem is just improving overall conversion. We've recently noticed some drop off in attendees for our five day challenges, which are our main way of generating new leads and new sales. Our last big problem is just our own time constraint. We are almost at max capacity for delivering on our services just due to the amount of customization that's involved. - Fixing these problems matters a lot to us Because we went through what we call the anti-honeymoon stage when we first got married, which is where we were trying to figure out how to be business owners, but also still a married couple at the same time. So being able to reach other couples and help them sidestep some of the issues that we went through is really important to us. Okay, so what's sales velocity? So how many do you sell a month? So we do these challenges every two months. And this is what a typical challenge will look like. We'll generate about 511 leads and or registrants for the challenge. And the average challenge attendees are 26. So 26 out of the 511 will actually show up to the live sessions each day. Out of that, we will typically book 12 sales calls. We'll hold 10 and we'll close six sales. And currently right now, between both of our programs, we're working with 42 couples. And we've only had four clients churn over the last 12 months. And that's really just due to payment issues. So right now the company is Y'all. Yes. Zuck. Yeah, you have a CS person on the back and you have a setter on the front. Exactly. Yep. What other stuff you got anything else because we just use Facebook ads to generate leads and sales in 2024 Here are the total numbers for the Facebook ads. There's obviously a lot of numbers here But some of the numbers that really stand out to us is the extremely high cost per average attendee at eight hundred fifteen dollars and our average attendees show up rate of five point two five percent that being said on the plus side is if people show up, they have a 49% chance of booking a sales call with us. That's why the average attendee to sales call book ratio is 49%. I just, I feel like we're going to be able to fix this, but I think it's going to be really elegant and it'll probably grow the company a lot and make you a lot more money. There's a version of the business that I like that I think would make this great. The fact that you like the date night and everybody likes the date night. Instead of doing a five day challenge, just do it a four hour date night and crush the full five four hours in one pitch you get twice as many people there and probably even more will show because it's the date night and you can still provide all the value you normally do and then just close so frame it like couples are coming together for a date night you actually probably break a record around that too like in the ads hey we're gonna do the world's biggest date night yeah okay cool i like that but the thing is that like we actually have to solve this back to front so i do think there's a better way to convert and i'll get into the tactics around that but like It's kind of a bled offer now the way that you guys deliver and all that stuff fine people like it But I'm just looking at like what am I getting here? I'm not like super stoked about it I'd rather solve for like we have this other thing that makes us a ton of money How can we pair that down so that we can still sell that at that price point but have five or ten times the capacity? We're gonna go deep dive on the offer So the back-end high ticket offer. So right now we have Slack, the calls, right? Two on two. Yeah, quarterly, two on two. Quarterly, okay. And how long is that? The first one is 90 minutes. Every other one is one hour. Okay, got it. What else is there? Weekly group calls. Weekly group. Okay, that's not that bad. All right, what else is there? I would say in addition to... Yeah, there's some modules, etc. Yeah, online modules and then in addition to the two-on-two quarterly calls the first one we do a deep dive looking at their website. And that's the four to six hour thing. Yes. Yeah. So we'll go deep dive. So the first... That feels like a separate deliverable to me. Yeah, so the first quarterly call is longer and it takes more prep time. So I'll just say this times three and then that one times one. Yep. Okay. This is current. There's also this other piece because you have this bonus of in-person, right? Yes. So what I'm doing here is before I dive into recreating an offer, I'm actually going through the process live with them, which is I want to understand all the resources and assets that we have at our disposal. In the offers book, I cover this in Creating Your Grand Slam Offer Part 2, The Trim and Stack. The first part is listing out all the stuff out. And then the second part is okay now we have all these list of things How are we going to cut it and combine it and package it so that it's the leanest and the most valuable? Because fundamentally we don't want to just like offer a ton of stuff We want to offer the few things that people really want and then just remove everything else So this is the 100 million dollar scaling roadmap and they are at stage three stabilized So they have a very small team one to four And let me read some of the constraint they're probably dealing with people aren't buying fast enough or just the cash conversion cycle So they're not getting paid fast enough. They're wasting time with bad leads. They don't have enough time to talk to good leads They're not sure what to fix everything's going wrong, right? And customers feel lost now this one Maybe you don't feel as much on the customer service side But they've made up for that by just providing full-time slack access at all times to them. So really they're feeling lost We can fix the thing that they complain about most from a product perspective which is this is partially they're complaining about it But it's also from a customer angle of what are all the things that we provide the most value and then Recombining those to make the most valuable offer to side on basic qualifications, right? So they had this cheaper thing. It's like well Who do we really want to serve? Let's make a product for them not a product for everyone which then ends up serving for By the way, if you want to know where you're at on this scaling roadmap, it goes from zero employees all the way to 500 plus. And we break it down by eight functions of product marketing, sales, customer service, IT, recruiting, human resources, and finance, where people get stuck there and how to get through it. This is my gift to you. It's absolutely free. You can go to acquisition.com forward slash roadmap. And if you want my team to actually help you with this for your business, you can schedule a call with them and They'll dive into the business and if it makes sense to invite you out we will and maybe we'll see here in Vegas I think you're messing this one up I think this is one of the most valuable things to do you could functionally charge $25,000 a year and have two getaways a year guaranteed and so you could say like think about this as marriage insurance We're gonna do all the other stuff But you guarantee yourself that you have two amazing times per year and when you look back on your life Most of the months kind of blend together It's just the little spikes that are the moments that you remember. That's what we're gonna help you build. I think we do 2x per year in person and I think you should position it like getaway rather than conference. Yeah, okay. And also you guys will have a great time to get away too. So like it'll be fun for you. So I would what I would do if I were you guys is I would go do the whole experience with them whatever two days and then stay two days after for you guys and unwind we want yeah and what do you think you're gonna do at the in-person event when they're all there at the moment just planning on doing renewal sales yes yeah good that's what that's how we're gonna do and so basically we have two in-person events we're eliminating slack that's for sure screw slack feels so good thank you yeah you're welcome i think you feel lighter i would almost rather you get rid of this. The weekly group calls? Yeah. Because I don't think anyone's like, I'm staying for the group calls. You're right. They probably stay for this. You're right. Absolutely. Because when we survey our clients, the weekly group calls are usually the least favorite. Let me tell you a secret. What a lot of people do is that they will try and add as much as they possibly can. The goal is value per bonus. Basically, the way that I think about it is each thing we add on its own should be worth the price of the whole thing. Simplicity is the ultimate in business. Simplicity makes for a simpler marketing. It makes for simpler selling. It makes for a simpler delivery. But the problem is that complexity always rears its head. People want to overcomplicate things. You want to have four or five benefits in one ad because you think they're all important. But the reality is that you weren't able to prioritize the one that mattered. most for the specific avatar that you're trying to advertise to. We could include a hundred things, but there's typically only one thing that gets someone over the hump. People decide to buy because they hear something like, oh, that's the one, and then they're in. And so we just want to make sure that we make those details as compelling as humanly possible and then limit the details that we choose to talk about. To quote Jack Dorsey, founder of Twitter, make all the details perfect. limit the number of details. The main value adds are, we're gonna meet with you, we're gonna do a deep tab, you're gonna come out twice a year. - Yeah. - Love it. - If you wanna have the group, I would say this is like for y'all, but like this is not support. This is not like you tag me in every single post kind of thing. This is if you want to connect each other, then this is the way, basically you're more curating the experience. then you are doing a whole bunch of stuff in there. Okay. So I think we go deep dive, which is fundamentally just a lot of boarding. So you'd want to do that anyways, right? Two and two quarterly times three. And then you have the group, which is not going to be a lot. Okay. So if we're looking at the total delivery time, this is 60. So this is three hours, right? Let's just call this six. So it's nine hours. and then you have the two events a year. So basically, let's just call it 10 plus this is fixed between everybody. 10 hours per couple is the cost. You make $25,000, and so realistically, the cap is going to be these two. This is now the new cap of the business, not all this other stuff. So how many quarterly calls can you take? First initial strategy session does take you know, considerable amount of time. But after that, I think we could do five per day. You wouldn't do five per day. You wouldn't do it. Like you can do it physically. I'm saying, what are you willing to do? I know what you can do physically. I'd say probably two per week. He's at five a day, not two a week. I'm like, okay, so we have a 12X differential between you guys. Maybe five per week. Yeah, five per week. And you do one day where you just do five. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, we try to balance. So that means that you'd max out at 60 because you're doing 12 weeks one a quarter times five, right? Yeah, so that makes you have to 60 clients. I don't love that Yeah, I'd love to be higher than that. How do we get you to 150 points? That's what I'd like to reverse into because we get you to 150 at 25 Let's call it 30 because so a lot of people are gonna be on payment plans then that takes you to four and a half, which is 10 times what you're currently making, or 11, which feels chill. On my scale of chill, it's chill. Yeah, I mean, it's pretty chill. So 12 weeks, if we could get to 15 a week, now, again, this is what we have to deliver on. We could do a smaller group of four and have it be 90 minutes. Because then on Monday, you could do four 90s, six hours, and see 24. And 24 times 12 is even more than that. When you are supply constrained, you can either raise the price, so fewer people buy, and the people who buy you get paid more for, or you change the ratio of delivery, meaning you go from one-on-one to to one on four to one on six to one to many or you productize or You hire people so we have a lot of different ways that we can solve a supply constraint We're going to change what we deliver and make it into a product We're going to change what we deliver slightly by delivering it to more people at once We're going to keep it the same number of people But we're going to raise the price we make more per person or we're just going to hire somebody else to do it All of these are potential solutions But I'm going back and forth with them to figure out which one makes the most sense They were a little bit cash constrained and I didn't get the impression they wanted to have a big team The next one is the price now They were already struggling to sell the higher ticket thing and so like I don't think we have room to go three or four times as high because that's what we would need to do in order to make a Pricing move that would make sense. So this one out and then we have the product sizing now they already did a productized version but they can't sell it at the price that they're selling their expensive thing so this one's out now this is basically the only thing that's left on the map that I see as a high likelihood solution for where they're at right now which is why I recommend the other factor I guess to consider is our dream state of this business wouldn't necessarily involve us being so heavy involved in. It's only one day a week. True. That's true. Yeah. I'm working on one day a week here. Yeah. Yeah. No, I like that. Millions of dollars and work one day. I'm like, okay. That's fair. That's fair. Yeah. Our goal is eventually to be able to have coaches that can deliver on it as well. I will be super candid with you. Most coaching businesses fail at scale. And it's because if you have some unique skill set or your personality, whatever it is, like your X factor. If it's easy to teach, it's not valuable. And in order to have coaches who come in who can deliver the same level of value, it's going to be hard to teach. So either you're going to have the issue of like, I'm going to bring someone in and they can walk with the customers or more likely you'll bring someone in, train them up in a weekend and they'd be like, this is now the person doing delivery. Now then you're going to claim it's your system and all the other stuff. I've never seen really anyone get above 30-ish million a year in that space. And so the people who get above that typically have a more distributed model. So what I mean is this is y'all's X factor. So let's say we have all these little shot glasses here. And on the other side, we have full same-sized bottles. Okay? Okay. Scenario one, I just pour this into the shot glasses. Okay. Scenario two, I pour it into the big glasses. Then I take this and fill it up to the top so that it's the same amount. What you end up having, this is the coaching model. You're going to get the same amount of time. You're going to get this person. They're not as good as me. It's going to be really diluted X factor. Versus, would you rather just have a little bit less... But you have the full me, the full X factor. And in my opinion, this model still is better because then you just keep getting better. Now, if you're like, okay, well, we don't want to be key man. I'd rather get you to 4 million a year. And then we can deal with that problem. When he did the whole Gatorade analogy, that was very powerful because we don't want to dilute the value of what we offer. And for many coaching businesses, you feel like you have to just by hiring other coaches to coach for you So that was a really powerful paradigm shift every one of these solutions that I just outlined have businesses that have succeeded with them The question is which problem would you rather solve if you decide to do the hiring path? Then you're going to build basically a firm of partners to do this service for other people The problem is most people who are in this world who are influencers or creators, whatever, they have some sort of X factor and people come for them. And so when they try and hire staff, they just say, oh, here's my buddy. I spent a day with him to try and teach him my method and now he's going to deliver it. If this is such a complex method, if you can train somebody up on it in a day or two, it's probably not that complex. or it is that complex and you're just saying it's not that complex and just putting them in front of customers because you don't want to do it anymore which is laziness and also you're probably not paying them what would be required to get somebody who's actually as good as you or better and so the business you build here is a recruiting training and culture business if you want to have a productized version of this then you're going to be leaning heavier in a marketing and sales because the delivery is going to be more or less automatic or productized. This allows you to scale more easily from an acquisition perspective, but then you've got to learn how to market and sell at an even higher level. Then we have these two. So if you're a pricing, then what you're really going to get into is the branding business, right? Because in order for them to command super premium prices, let's imagine they only have 100 customers. They say, we never want to get over 100 customers and we want to grow this business. It's like, well, then the only thing we can do is just keep jacking prices in this scenario but the only way we're going to get people to continue to buy is that we have to reinforce this brand loop where every time we have these hundred customers their lives improve by so much they create these amazing stories for us they bring their friends and then over time because we have supply and demand right as a nice little x factor here the price would continue to go up as demand increased right but we're keeping supply fixed Now the ratio, which is what I recommended for them, I want to say it kicks the can down the road. And what I mean by that is they're just going to get better and better just because you get more practice if you're the person who's got the X factor. And so they're going to get more practice. So even though people are going to get shot glasses of them, it's going to be more and more concentrated shot glasses, which means they can keep dividing it over and over again as they get better and better. And so the value per person actually can stay fixed as they improve ultimate version This is look at Tony Robbins business, right? We got one guy and he's on stage in front of 10,000 people and they all pay $5,000 to be there because he can command that price because he's so good on stage that people are still thrilled even though they're in an auditorium of a zillion people in the ratio business the business that you're really building there is They're just continuing to do what they're doing and they're just going to be able to drive more and more profit in the business. And we personally enjoy the events probably the most out of everything else we do in the business. This would probably be my V1. My V2 would be, can we just sell three a year? And then I would just basically position it as, listen, right now you're not spending the money and you know you should. This will guarantee that you have it. And also, you split up the day so it's 50%. 50/50 so it's like we're gonna be doing some stuff together, but like it's also y'alls vacation so take the day the thing is is like it's okay because you block that like the values you made them block the time right and come out and do it make a cool experience when Alex said don't worry about key man risk we felt a sense of a relief because we felt like we had to just take what we do and go multiply it with other people but realizing that we can just not have to worry about that right now and focus on what it is that we do best and grow the business in that way makes it feel a lot more simple and allows us to again just do what we love to do and serve the people that we love to serve so I think this is view one but let's solve the money thing here if you're willing to do two days a week then that would get you to 120 so that takes you to three ish moment it's better than five days a week at what we're currently at yeah yeah love that for you yeah okay so this to me is This is no longer the back-end offer. This is just the offer. That's thing one. By the way, for the record, we do like serving our clients, so it's not like they're bothering us this lack. Oh, of course. Of course. Clients, they're very happy to deliver, and they're very grateful. And congratulations for everybody who got the $5,000 offer. thing yeah it will never be sold again the second thing is going to be our acquisition model okay so you guys are doing the five-day challenge so if I wanted to make the lowest risk bet yeah my lowest risk bet would be run the playback again and now sell the thing that you should have been selling this whole time okay okay if I wanted to be spicy which why not yes my spicy version of this is you run date night and you make it two to four hours and then you just pitch right at the end so the reason that I'm a big believer in this is that there's a certain amount of information that someone is that is required for someone to make a decision we can spread that in five hours over five days or we can do one five hour session if I had to pick between the two I'd rather do the five hour session and the main reason is because like I can weave a lot more things in I get like you're kind of like in state you're in flow it's top of mind you're like there rather than having to remember each time to come back to this thing And so you'd also have twice as many people that you'd be pitching to. If your position is a date night, no one's, oh, I'm going to do this date night for 60 minutes. It's not a date night. So I think having it be extended, you already have permission based on the nature of what a date night normally is. So this all makes sense. This is your activity for the evening. We got you covered. This has already been demonstrated across lots of industries that just super long single day or half day events can be incredibly compelling for selling very high-tech of things when someone gets three or four hours with you in person they get a pretty decent vibe about you and your expertise and whether they want to make a buying decision so they would actually do a real date night engine yeah yeah and we're just talking through different yeah i think you're doing like this would be like break all the internet marketing rules but you're doing like a friday night yeah now if that's hard then it's like you could test it and be like it's thursday night but from all the math that i've seen doesn't really matter - Whatever day you're running. - Perfect, perfect. - So you can believe whatever narrative you want, but at the end of the day, I don't think it's gonna matter. - Okay. - If we do do it tomorrow, I'd say just run the play you already know, it's already built out, and then just offer the better offer. So what we need to do here, and this is actually super common in a lot of businesses, is you have to pull cash flow forward. So number one, one of my preferred methods, is you can do layaway, right? Which is you can pay on whatever plan you want, but you won't get delivery until you pay - X amount. Until you pay a third, we don't start, but you can make it as flexible as you want, but a lot of people are like, I'll just pay a third now and then start the payments. - Okay. - And then that way you can pull out more of that cash up front. - So we wouldn't even start the service until they get to that point. - Correct, got it. - I think so at least put their-- - Yes, you can do an onboarding call or something like that if you want. So you're just to be like, hey, congratulations, we're excited to have you. We'll add to this community, but we're not gonna start doing the deep dives and all that stuff until you pay. The way that that would help solve the cash flow issue is the idea is that most people would be like, screw it, I'll just prepaid the first quarter. Now, that's kind of option A. And I would just recommend doing, ask for the quarter up front, which is basically, the way it works is it's 9K down. And the reason we do this is because the deep dive we do is really intense and it costs us the most out of everything that we're going to provide. for you. All right. In terms of our time, basically you sell that. And then I would just immediately start the payments, whatever it is, $2,500 or $3,000 per month after that. But I would start immediately. It's not like you pay nine, don't have to pay. And then you have the next thing because then you're going to have a churn. Okay. The thing here is then you down sell layaway. So if they're like, I can't pay the nine K now, no worries. Just make three payments and then we'll kick you off. Okay. And that's cool because you're also probably going to come up soon to one of the event dates. Cool, you're prepaying this, you're going to be doing a vacation anyways, might as well just think about it like a savings one. I don't think we need to complicate this any more than that. Basically, the fast action bonus is you start now and we do the deep dive immediately and you'll qualify to come to our event. So if we have an event in two months, everybody who prepays can attend and gets the deep dive. Yeah. And you're always going to have one within four months anyways if you're doing three a year. Yeah. - Okay, so the only way they come to the event or get the deed type is if the 9K is paid. - They got it at least. - Yeah. - Got it, okay. - Next thing is we're gonna go acquisition, all right? Let's do ads right now. What I want you to do is also offer a $2,500 rebate. As soon as they sign on and do their first date night, they make a video of them doing the date night and what the experience was like. And so then you can use all those for ads on the front end. I love that. So you give them a rebate. So it's like, it's $32,500, but you get $2,500 back as soon as you send us the video. And you obviously give us permission to use it. Don't talk about money. Just talk about the experience. Talk about what it's like. Okay, and you would add the rebate cost on top of the... Yeah. Got it. I got it. I'm a big believer in making ad machines in every business, which is like, I want to have the normal function of the business create the marketing for the businesses. I want a fusion reactor. I want something that can just self-sustain. I don't want to have inputs that's always me to drive the business forward. And so whenever I can, wherever I can in a business, I want to create some way of documenting stories, narratives, emotions, outcomes from customers. Think about how it works in sequence. One person advertises, that's me. That starts the engine. Customer comes in. Customer has great experiences. That experience gets documented that experience gets advertised that experience from that customer gets the next customer So the only thing that's really required to get the business started is me just doing one big marketing push And then after that the snowball rolls on its own. Okay, so if we're looking at these ads, do you guys ever run video? We've tried but it hasn't performed as well for us. Yeah, so I'll tell you a secret about video video has higher volatility than images do. But your best ads will be video and your worst ads will be video. So video outperforms images if they're good videos. Images outperform videos if they're bad. You guys make content, right? Yes. Okay, so can you pull up their Instagram real quick? What's your best one recently? The one to the top right. Okay, there we go. To any man who's married to a strong woman, here's a new lesson I've learned about masculinity. Your wife's strength does not have to compete with your strength. It actually complements your strength. The strength of your wife does not threaten your manhood at all. In fact, the more you encourage her to flourish in the areas that God has gifted her in, the healthier your relationship will become. So when you leave from this place, a place of collaboration rather than a place of competition, you actually become the strong man that you and she wanted you to be in the first place. Love this. So now all we do is take that, run this as an ad, and then put a five second CTA at the end. My wife and I have been working together for this many years. If you're a couple of entrepreneurs and this resonated with you, come attend. We're doing a four hour date night. It's going to be awesome. Like we're trying to do the world's biggest night. Either way, it's going to be a blast. It's absolutely free. Just put in your information. We'll send you a couple of texts to remind you and we'll see you there. Perfect. Love it. Love that. That's great. What I want you to do is because you guys are cash constrained right now is how many pieces of content you're putting out a week? Like two. Okay. So what I want you to do is get to at least one a day. Okay. You're going to use that as your free testing ground. You're going to take your highest performing clips and then run those ads and just slice a CTA at the end. Got it. Okay. Okay. Okay. Perfect. So we're going to repurpose best performers. Okay. Did you get any business from that? No. Is there any post that you've made that has gotten you business? The closest we got to that was a podcast interview that we did where the podcast hosts themselves loved us so much they hired us to go to some. Okay, got it. So what I would also do is I want you to take that podcast and slice it up and run the moments as both organic and ads. Okay. That's the ad side that I would do now obviously I think you should also make normal ads following the standard Advertising process that we outline in our lovely leads book you can still do the images I would just run a ton more of them like how many images were you running for this normal campaigns? We do probably like 12 to 16 so I would probably bump the end on that to like a hundred on images Just because like you just have no idea literally just open up your iPhone You have probably a gazillion images of each other and hanging out literally run all of them Okay, just all of them on the image side and then this with the Organic that will give you a good amount on camera roll. There we go Okay, so I think if we just did that you'll probably be good to go same happy that is Yeah, your highest performance I think copy usually needs to change very little I'll tell you For school last year we spent tens of millions of dollars on ads and we never changed the copy once. Okay. Once the copy is right, you just keep changing the creative because it's like this is the message that resonates. Now we just need to get it in front of different people in different ways, different hooks in terms of the creative, but like the actual words on the copy more or less the same. Let's do funnel, which is not really existing. Okay, so I do think that part of the reason that y'all's show up rate is so low is because you don't actually have a page. Yeah. So lead form opt-ins tend to be the lowest quality overall. I would bet that you could probably get somewhere in the neighborhood of 25% if you ran them to a funnel. Now, that being said, you'll get cheaper opt-ins here, but you won't necessarily get cheaper sales because you track CPA, right? Have you ever done it to a funnel or no? Yeah, actually that's the reason why we currently run lead formats is because when we tracked the CPA all the way to the back end, the leads that opted in through the lead form were the lower CPA and higher qualified too, which is weird. Like even our agency, we've never seen this, but okay. It's not common. Was that one campaign that you did that on? No, we split tested it for a year. Because I even thought I was like, this makes no sense it doesn't make any sense yeah well then I'm not gonna mess with it at the end of the day the actual percentage shows and things like that don't actually matter the only thing matters is cost to acquire and would we be okay with a $1,500 CAC on a $2,500 thing yes would be cool with a $2,500 CAC on a $2,500 yeah sure and now that we have the 9k we're gonna get way more of those up front yeah so you hear the common theme between probably a lot of these different kind of episodes that I run with business owners is that there's many things they could potentially improve in the business but there's usually one or two that are the big levers on growth and for Kyle and Ariel it's the offer and the creative so make a better offer make better creative better creative gets us better leads better offer gets more than to buy we sing happily ever after as Butterworth draws my bath for now I'll say this I don't want you to change it I want you to stick with what we have make better ads have a superior offer the main test that we have to basically make the decision on which we will by the end of this is do we want to run the same play again or do we want to run the four hour date night it's hard because we've been just following here's what works let's just keep doing what works until it stops working and now we're like Well, shoot. Well, it has stopped working. Yeah, exactly. Now, I'll bet you that the messaging of the five days probably converts because your conversion has been fine. It's been like attendance and stuff. And so for me, I'm like, okay, well, I do think that there's probably way more people running five-day challenge stuff. And so that's fairly typical. If you were to run it as a date night, I think that's a unique angle that is unique to your business. You can still do the same amount of kind of presentation time as you normally would probably slice some stuff out to do intro outro every time So probably is three hours of quality content out of five So this like great and then you can just do a wrap-up pitch at the end if you change nothing You'd have twice as many people there for the pitch if the date that converts better than the challenge then it'd be even more how much of this is like a date night fun activity versus like what we do during the challenge, which is very like tactical heavy objection handling sales but you know all that we still provide value of course right so just do that okay and you can probably reframe the front a little bit literally just the introduction and the rest of it can probably be the same if I started I was like hey everybody welcome to date night if you're anything like us date night is not business or fun it's both and so we're gonna do that together all right so let's start with then you're in right so it's I think yeah there you go we've just merged it now we're in perfect okay that's a great you lose you need a frame yeah so what's your upsell percentage from the in-person events that you have now so our in-person events I've held two so far last year was the first time we had the lower ticket offer we focus way too much on production and providing value and like barely pitched okay we weren't that intentional so therefore I think we only sold one of the higher tier program at our last event which covered the cost but it'd be great to like do a lot more how many people would you close in general out of the people who attended no but what about to renew on the lower ticket thing we didn't only one person total okay you definitely didn't pitch it was we went too soft and I know you say that you're gonna pitch pitch and yeah so how many days is the event Two. All right. So number five is me renewing. So this is me just planning ahead. If you just do the stuff we were talking about, like the business will probably already triple or more. I'm not triple. Sorry. If it's 3 million, then it would be more than that, like 7 or 8x. Okay. So you've got day one. You've got day two. Intro is going to matter a lot. It's one of the most important things of an event. It's just blowing people away. Be on top of it. It's a lot of little details. Yeah. Green by name, have specific facts about their business, about their marriage that you bring up to each person. I would try and have a list of people that you can tag so that, do you have help for these events? Yes. Take the list of people who are going to be there, break them into different rosters, be like, you're on A, you're on B, you're on C, you're on D. You can give different lanyard colors so that they can basically know, oh, this is green, this is blue, this is yellow, this is orange. and then you're in charge of yellows you're in charge of reds you're in charge of oranges make sure that you tag all of them they have a little list and they have the two facts they're going to bring up to them they're like damn these people are on top of it and so that's the in between so you'll have your intro you'll have meet one meet two and then you have your break m3 m4 and then you'll probably have your pitch and then you'll have another intro again sorry m1 m2 and then You'll have lunch. And then I think here is where you do a soft repitch. And then you do M3, M4, and then wrap. Does that make sense? Makes a lot of sense. Yeah, I would say here I would do a dinner of some sort. People who buy get to go to dinner with you guys. So reserve a nice place. So that gives them immediate reason. And then here, this can typically be shorter. So this can usually be like 15 to 30 minutes. That's just, hey, my team tells me X, Y, and Z from yesterday, so I wanted to handle some of those things up front for you, but I'm going to try and frame this in a way that's still the height. And so it'll help you with your business too. Yeah, I like that. So teach while simultaneously overcoming objections. Got it. And that's what the re-pitch is. Now for this pitch, would you do like the full hour? You don't typically need to. Oh, okay. I'm a big believer in like, just provide value. I think stories and narratives are really powerful here. Frameworks, things like that. And then basically at the end, I think just having like, if today was valuable, do you mind if I just tell you a little bit more about what we do? Okay. Sure. And then you're talking 15 minutes, stack and close. Okay. That's it. You basically just make the offer, let them know how to get it. It's called action. And then it comes dinner with us for everybody that does it. That's a huge relief because in my mind I'm like every single thing we do from start to finish we have to structure in a way that I like lead to it. But for right now you haven't sold anyone. So we're going to start with just selling and having a clear offer and then just asking again and we're going to leave it there for now. Of course if you weave in some like in the examples that you use in each of the media sessions. You're like, hey, you want to weave in the different avatars, both psychographic in terms of what are the belief systems that these people have, and then also what are the typical problems that they're dealing with, because that'll be different too. And I'll bet you of the three, if I had to pick for diversity, that would be the one I'd want to make sure I had the most diversity in. The biggest one is going to be the diversity of objections. These ones, their business was crushing it, but the marriage wasn't. The other ones, their marriage was crushing it, but their business is actually causing problems because if they just had that right they'd be good to go. Other ones, let's talk about kids. Basically hitting the different things that someone's going to bring up. We all have unspoken limiting beliefs and the difficulty is recognizing them. I think this is in my book. My favorite quote of all time that will likely be on my tombstone is the value equation, which is, we question all of our beliefs except for the ones that we really believe in and those we never think to question. And so I think it's such a powerful statement because we are limited by invisible chains of our own making and so many times in my life I've been living inside of a cage that I didn't even know existed and so they are enslaved to this business right now because of their beliefs about the fact that it must be this way or that there is no possible alternative reality in which they could sell people and help them in a non-one-on-one scenario. And all I wanted to do is just bring in evidence from other scenarios where people get more help from being in larger groups, not one-on-one, so that people could not be ashamed. But these blocks exist all over the business. It could just be from the price or no one's going to like these ads or no one's going to want to buy this offer. It's like you don't know. until you try it. And if you're not sure, just look around because if you're in a tremendous amount of pain, then you should be incredibly motivated to disprove the belief that you have that there's a way to solve this problem. Now, when you say renewal, are we renewing into the lower tier offer or should we? No, I think you should only ascend for the existing. And I would just let them know, hey, we're sunsetting this. And so you guys bought a year or whatever it is. And so the nice thing is that it's super light on delivery for you guys anyway, so it's not a huge deal. And I would sunset it. So those are the big five. Cool. So I'm going to recap them for you and then we'll put this in above. Quick question too on the renewals. Like, would you do a specific incentive for renewal? Would I have an incentive for immediate renewal? Yes. So I'll give you a couple of different ones that you could think of that you might think is more compelling or less. You could say, hey, for everyone who renews today, we'll buy you first class tickets. to the next event or all three events next year. Love that. I actually like it because the experience really does start when you leave home. And so it's like you've got champagne on the plane, you're getting more mindset. And so what's the total net cost on that? It's like six grand maybe. So you can keep the price the same and you can add that in. Or you could say a very classic fast action bonus or something like that. Just knock five grand off the price. for immediate renewals. Yeah. Okay, so renewals for the high ticket and then lower tickets is for sunsetting. It would just be ascension. Okay. In between right now, add in the quarterly and the deep dive. Okay. For now. And people will pay $25,000 for that. For sure. I mean, the only other things are modules they're not using and calls they don't care about. They do love the slack though. The slack. You know, they can ask us a question. Well, the thing is, is that there's things that people might love after they buy and then there's things that people will love before they buy. I'll give you an example. So at Plant Fitness they have like a pizza night once a week. I think it's Tuesday or whatever. It's like you can get pizza. The reason they do it is because they're like listen at the very least you can come get pizza here and it's going to be cheaper than this membership. You should get free pizza. So it gets people to buy. But then people no one even eats the pizza because they don't go to the gym. Because they feel guilty. But the thing is this is a great little The reason someone buys isn't always necessarily the reason someone stays. Now, if people haven't been ascending, then the slack takes up your time, but it's not causing them to buy again. True. Yeah. True. It's just a time cycle. So from the outside looking in, the slack isn't necessarily a selling point as much as it is something people like afterwards. The reality of it is that you have reinforced them messaging you all day. True. So they message you and then the latency between you responding then reinforces them doing that which means the group's probably not super active. Your Slack messages are super active. And so it's like we want to redirect all of that activity to the community because think about all the value that lives in all your slacks. Right now it's to no one. So if someone's gonna ask you a question, I'll answer for everybody because that question is not one of a kind. Now the other piece that I would break that you pierced the veil on is we set this up with one-on-one two days a week. You guys are Christian, right? Okay. The amount of church relationship communities where it's 10 people in a room, 20 people, 20 couples in a room, and they get up and they talk. You have AA, super personal, people get up in front. I think it's a belief that you have, but like couples problems are couples problems. So here I was hitting her from behind. They're just going to be like, we're having trouble in bed. And everyone knows what it means. The flip side of how I would sell this listen one of the hardest parts of being a couple printer is it's lonely and so wouldn't it be nice to know that the struggles that you have are struggles that other people share too and to be clear I would use the exact examples I'm not gonna be saying like what are the positions you're right here like have you brought a friend in I'm kidding I'm saying like like you're it's like all right well she threw a wig on you know like yeah but like no one's like clutch my pearls they're married Do whatever you want. And so I think it's a belief thing. And it's like, you're not talking erectile dysfunction. You're just talking about the relationship. And those are going to be commonalities. And I think that long term, they'll probably feel more kinship. The idea that they're stuck with the same business issues. And the business advice you give helps everybody. The relationship advice you give helps everybody. Now, there is a ratio where it stops being small group and becomes one to me. many. So basically after like, I'd say seven-ish, it's now not enough individual time. I think if you guys did one on four and he did the four 90 minute sessions, I think you'd be fine. It's harder to go from one-on-one to one-to-many. So if you're going to change it, I would just change it. Okay. What do you think? If we are currently doing like weekly group calls and Slack, there's almost like a constant flow of question answering. and things like that. If we're just going to quarterly calls and the events, there is none of that. It's almost just the experience of coming together at the events and then getting the strategy each quarter. Do you think there would be any pushback from people not being able to ask questions on the strategy that we map out every quarter? Maybe. Okay. Comma, how much does it matter? And so I think, again, a lot of this comes down to framing. Yeah. And so... If I'm going to work with someone, for example, I'm not going to be like, hey, hit me up whenever. Because the thing is, is that doesn't serve you. Because that means that I'm making all your decisions for you, which means that you never learn. You also never learn how to prioritize. If every single thing, you just outsource your decision making to me, which is not a good life for me or you. And that has happened. Of course it has. And so the thinking process that I would have is, By doing it this way, you'll be fully focused on the fewest things that matter most. Anyone can give you more things to do. It's about doing the fewest things that make the most impact. Just as much as it is for the relationship, as much as it is for the business. Because like your wife, I can probably give this list of 10 things, but if you just said thank you for doing the dishes every single day, and maybe pick up the kids once a week, Yeah. Get us some flowers. If you just do those three things, the marriage is fixed. Let's just think about how do we remove everything that's preventing you from doing that? So I think a lot of it shifts subtly in terms of how you're presenting it in the pitch. But I would call that out. If you're the type of person who's like, hey, I want someone to tell me exactly what to say to my wife every single day. Here's the thing. I'm not married to your wife. Right. You married your wife. And so if I were to do that, I would be doing you a disservice because you're never going to learn. I'm just going to be ChatGPT for you for relationships. And you know what? You should use ChatGPT for it because it's not bad. These day-to-day things. We're here for the big decisions. That's where we provide the most value. Because if you look back on your life, there's a handful of decisions that created the life you have. And we want to make the next handful of decisions exactly what they should be to get to the life you want. That's fantastic. because I've even told her too that my brain feels like chat GPT because I'm basically answering questions all day long. - Terrible to live. - Yeah, it absolutely is. Along the same lines of that though, the best case studies we've had of couples, and we're very blessed to say that we have 20 videos of just amazing case studies of people making more money and taking notes. I don't know if that would have been possible had we not held them accountable. accountable to taking the steps and stay focused because between one quarter to the next I mean you know how much can shift the people shift priorities people get distracted whatever so how do we mitigate that so I'll give you escape valve and then another frame okay so escape valve if you want which is who here is seen or heard of who wants to be a millionaire so everybody had three lifelines right one of them was call friend one was you move this just to go so for us you've got four 9-1-1 calls or two. If it's a 9-1-1 emergency, then by all means, let us know and we'll figure it out. But that way it's on an escalation basis. Again, the goal here isn't for them to be dependent on you. The goal is for them to learn the skills so that they can get to where they want to go. Anyone can give you a lot of things to do, but that assumes unlimited resources, which you do not have and so realistically all of you guys here let's just be honest you're gonna dedicate maybe five percent of your time to this so we want to crush that five percent so we get the eighty percent hundred and eighty percent benefit from it yeah that's the value of strategy yeah yeah and that makes a hundred percent sense too as to why people aren't renewing because they feel like they haven't used all the resources of course so it's actually hurting us for both angles yes of course planet fitness figured this out But there was this huge amount of big health clubs, right? And they had racquetball courts, they had swimming, they had basketball, they had weights, they had cardio. But when they did their research, they found out that 80% of people just used the cardio, mostly, and then a little bit of weights. And so they said, cool, we'll just cater to the 80% and we'll dramatically be able to reduce our cost to open and be able to reduce the price and transfer that to the cost. And so what happens is when health clubs are charging $59 a month, $89 a month, people are still only using those two things for the most part. And so we think, oh, I'm going to add more stuff to provide more value. But all you do is create a larger discrepancy between consumption and lack of consumption. Look at all the stuff I'm not using, which means I'm not getting my money's worth. Rather than thinking, I'm getting all this for $59, they're just thinking I'm only using 20% of my $59. $19.99. And so it doesn't matter what the price point is, people still cancel because they just think that they're not using as much as they should. So that's why, when I went back to the bonuses, we want to make sure that the things that we're putting there are absolutely going to be used because they're valuable. Anyone who's watching this who has a product, you need to pay attention to this. So let's say that you have some sort of mini stack. I like the gym membership because it's the simplest example right you've got a spa and you've got a pool and you've got basketball court you've got tennis you've got weights you've got cardio right there's all these things that we have for one low price of $29.99 whatever it is right the problem is most people are only gonna use one of these things throughout their entire career and so you might think oh I'm giving them all this value for $29 but what they're seeing is that they're not using this and so this is now waste instead of even added value and so it's much better to just give somebody a hundred percent of what the only thing they want and charge them appropriately for it because now they're getting a hundred percent of what they desire i know this obviously doesn't fix the straight problem of our delivery but what do you think about doing like small group monthly instead of quarterly so that way it's like setting the plan for the month they execute on it and doing it every month with four couples you would have the same exact thing as the one-on-one situation yeah it's easier to change a cadence than it is to change a ratio okay so if you wanted to start with we do monthly and it's one on four It's y'all's call. Okay. You wouldn't do it though. I just prefer to think, like, it forces you and it forces them to prioritize. Yeah, I do like that. Yeah. And for them to make decisions, not rely upon us. Yeah. Come to us with the big decisions that are going to affect your marriage and business. Yeah. And our deep dive in the beginning that we start with is we're going to be identifying what those levers are. Yeah. That's what we want to talk about. What you're having for dinner on Tuesday, what cool date idea that you're going to have, we've got resources for you. for that stuff you don't need me to tell you you should do clay pottery or wine and paint night or whatever you want to yeah you don't need me for that you could google it oh yeah the things that i can actually help you with are gonna be the rare things that have the bigger biggest impact on the life yeah and that's the highest leverage you said 100 yeah yeah for everybody yeah and i'd be like because listen if we were to do it where it was one-on-one and it was every single week we'd have to charge two hundred thousand dollars for it it wouldn't make sense So this still gets you the 80/20 of that and then you get all your time back. I'm loving this. When Alex clarified exactly what we need to do, I feel like that's gonna lead to even more bliss in our relationship because I'm no longer gonna be tied to a lot of client delivery. Even though we love our clients, it's gonna free up more time for us and it creates a much simpler path to hit our goal as a couple. Yeah, and it allows us to feel like we can move lock and step in the same direction towards the goal and it's a lot of what we help our clients do. So it's cool. Yeah. What would you do with the people that are currently in that offer? Would you continue to serve them the same way? Would you tell them that we're making an adjustment? Like how would you transition that? Here's the great news. Because you currently don't renew anyone. Just wait. Well, the thing is, is that like it doesn't actually matter. that much so you can continue to see it like always keep your commitments yes like you made a promise you keep it done but in terms of hey this is what we're doing going forward then that's it's a new agreement yep new terms new agreement yeah believe it or not we've actually got completely stacked because we're good and so because of that we still want to help you and we think this actually is and here's the thing and this is where i think people mess this up they will try it they will apologize essentially for saying hey we were one-on-one now we're doing one-four sorry we're just yeah no this is better yes this isn't as good it's better it's better because you're gonna have other people you'll hear somebody else's question but oh that's a good one I should have I should have thought of that or I didn't think about because the thing is is that somebody might have already solved your problem and they're on to the next problem and this also is why we don't need to meet as often because you're gonna hear a higher variety of questions being answered so that when you do have the next problem a month later, you're like, oh, Sandy, I remember what he said to Sandy. I'm just going to do that. That makes a lot of sense. Yeah, thank you. All right. Let's recap this. B, number one, new back end slash front end offer is going to be $25K slash $30K if they do a payment plan. We're going to do layaway as a down sell with three months, which is $9K up front. You can also do 10 if you like and that's going to come with two times per year in person one on four quarterly you can do one deep dive one-on-one that's fine so it's like we're going to do the deep dive one-on-one with you and then you're going to get in the group okay got it one-on-one deep dive and the group all right second thing is we're going to test date night angle so we're just going to take your five day put it vertical eliminate the transitions and then crush it number three add So I'm gonna split this into two because I think so we're basically more organic daily which goes into ads plus CTA at the end for 100 plus images from your camera roll and then for renewal you're gonna set it up and actually make the offer at in person and the easiest way to do that is just asking when they're gonna come back that's it this is the next date Let's do it. So I think that this is already a 5x on your price because you're going to probably convert about the same amount of people because believe it or not, fun fact, what matters more for the conversion is the first payment. So $5,000, this is $9,000. Really, you're going to be positioning as $2,500 to $3,000. So the cash up front is going to be more like... This is me just trying to get you to believe. All right, first, I like this angle. This is the big kind of like unknown. This could be like a 1 to 4x. Okay. Because if this crushes, which I really feel like it would, like you might just have a whole new way of selling in the industry. If I were to enter this industry, I would probably enter this way. Yeah. Okay. Organic daily, this will just improve your ads. Yeah. So this could be an easy 1.5x, maybe 2x if we're less. in terms of decreasing CAC and then the renewal is just going to extend out the LTV long term so that's gonna be year two year three where this is gonna matter. Gotcha. And just to clarify the renewal since we're doing this event in a month. Yeah. It would be the renewal to the new style offer. Yeah. Okay got it. Yeah. This is a combination of couple of couples insurance and couples accelerator. Downside you do absolutely nothing and you come twice a year we could still absolutely change your marriage and it'll be the moments that you remember most on the upside you actually do the work with us again use the examples I gave hey I've been in church the problems that you have aren't unique and so one of the big things about shame is it lives in darkness it makes you feel like you're alone yeah sure yeah I know that's great framing I love that and you also mentioned resources too if people have questions hey we have resources for that would you make that available have you defined shame and guilt because I think it's probably helpful so shame is when you break Other people's rules that you respect or care about. Guilt is when you break your own rules. So sometimes if your rules are the same as everyone else's, you'll feel guilt and shame. If you don't think what you're doing is wrong, but other people do, you'll just feel ashamed. And if you do something that isn't really wrong in other people's rules, but is for yourself, you'll feel guilty. And so I would explain that when someone's like, I don't want to be in these other people. I was like, let's just nail this. Let's just hit this on the head. Which is that you're afraid of being embarrassed sure so why do you feel embarrassed because you think you're the only person who deals with that and it's self-fulfilling so I think we've done a lot of thought We consulted our elders and we actually think that we want to we want to bring it to the light We want more people together so that you realize that this isn't something to be ashamed of if you have an issue and it's normal and The only thing that's not normal is that people think it's not normal - Yeah. - Yeah, I love that reframe. - Absolutely. - Even the definition of guilt versus shame. - Yeah. - I think it's perfect. - How do you feel about the spine? - I like it. - I love it. - Do you feel like you can do it? - Of course you can do it. - So coming into this, we had a thousand different ideas of how we can grow our business. And we were so excited to hear from Alex, 'cause he has the perspective of a bunch of different business models and a bunch of different marketing models. and now having got to sit with him we feel very clear on what is the next best step out of the thousand things that we could do we feel very clear that we could take the steps that he gave implement it and actually have more time in the process so even as a couple I think what Alex equipped us with is going to allow us to be even more aligned on where we're going even more fulfilled and just allow us to help and serve even more couples so we're super excited about it. To put a little bow on everything that we're going to do with Kyle and Ariel's business is number one, we're gonna have a new backend slash front end offer because it's just going to combine it into one offer. We're going to do a little deep dive with one on four. So we're changing the delivery ratio to just give them exactly what they need and expand their supply capacity. Number two is we're going to test the date night angle. I think it's going to crush. We'll see, but I feel pretty bullish on it, especially when they gave me their reaction. date night was like people's most favorite thing I'm like let's put that on the front end number three is just being more consistent with organic so that we can actually create more testing for free with ads because they're a kind of cash constraint business so the easiest way to test ads is just post them see how they do for organic and then just add the CTA later so anybody who's broke like consider doing that number four is running a ton of images as statics for the ads Because they had images that were working better. That's fine It's usually because the videos they make suck not because images are more compelling than videos videos are for sure more compelling but static images are better because people's imaginations fill in something that's compelling rather than a video that they know wasn't good and then finally we're going to build more recurring revenue in the business by having all the renewals occur in person which is the highest likelihood of closing closing. And so with those five changes within the business, I think they're going to unlock a tremendous amount of growth. And if you liked this video, you're going to love this next video where I break down a different business so that you can use the same tax they did, make all the money, and then question the meaning of life.