# I was using Claude Code wrong The Ultimate Workflow

Published: 2025-07-24

For the past few weeks, I have completely switched from cursor to cloud code and learned a ton of things that made my cloud code super effective. And today, I will take you through how do I use cloud code, how did I bring hero type of specdriven demand process as well as tips and practical examples of how I use feature like hooks, custom commands, and list of tips that made myself much more effective. So, without further ado, let's get started. But before we dive into that, I know many of you are just getting started learning programming. And one question I got asked a lot is what does road map look like for learning code effectively. That's why I want to introduce you to this free ebook made by Google's principal analytics lead and data scientist where she wrote down all the secret tips and methodologies that she used to learn coding with claw and chatb especially how she get output personalized learning road map based on her specific situation. It also cover all the absolute fundamentals and basics of coding like how do you choose the right coding language to start with and best practice prompt for different coding scenario like debugging and optimizing the code as well detailed road map of how to master language like Python in just four months. There's even a custom GPT that has baking all the core knowledge of latest package and learning resource that you can talk to alongside detailed video tutorial showcasing her step-by-step work. So, I definitely recommend you go take a look if you're just getting started with your coding journey. I put a link in the description below for you to download for free and thanks HubSpot for sharing this awesome material with us. Now, let's get back to how do I use cloud code. So, first thing first, you want to install this cloud code extension and this will allow you to deeply integrate into your current ID like cursor, VS code or wingserf. So now I can click on this run cloud code button and it will automatically open cloud code in my current ID and on the bottom right you should see that it is detecting the specific file I'm in and if I select some lines it will also automatically detect it. You can still use the terminal here as well and you can just do / IDE to choose the specific ID that you wanted to connect to. Next the first thing before you do anything is that you should run this init command line. So what this in command line do is that it will get cloud start analyzing your codebase to learn about what already set up what are the kind of dependencies components that you should be using. It will also ask your permission to do something for those type of commands like cd I just don't care I will just click on always auto approve and you will see this thing is automatically saved as permissions. I know some of you actually want to get cloud code always automatically run tools and there's a way you can run that as well. You can do this dangerously skip permissions and this will show you that it is bypassing all the permissions. So now tool it will ask you for permission though I wouldn't actually recommend this because from my experience one of the key advantage of the cloud codes UX is that allow you to interact with cloud much better and I will explain what I mean. All right so after it scan finish it will try to create this cloud MD file. If you're using cursor, that's basically your cursor rules. And if we click inside, you can see that it automatically detect what are the kind of tax stack, what are the ROM build commands, the architecture, the project structure, all the useful stuff. So this give cloud a very good base to continue developing new things on top of this ripple. And this cloud MD as I mentioned before is pretty much the cursor rules. The only difference is that in cursor the rules are injected more programmatically. But for cloud is much easier. Basically every single run this text you define here is appended on top of system message and I know there are a lot of people have different sorts of like a cursor rules that to enhance the workflow. For me it normally is pretty simple. One prom I do add in is this plan and review mode. This basically tell cloud code that before we start working on the project always in the plan mode make a plan first. And for the plan we want to save to this docloud /task/taskname.md so that we can keep track that later. And inside this task, we should kind of break down into different tasks. While cloud code is doing its job, it should also update the plan as we go and append what it does into the doc. And this is really useful because it is almost always better to just align with cloud code what exactly do you want. And this kind of also similar to Amazon's new uh kro workflow as well where they call it like spec driven development. And what it does is kind of similar. Uh it will ask you to go through the requirements and also kind of go through the architecture design come up. It's basically same thing and obviously you can go as deep as like ko where you will break down this three steps process but I often found it's effective enough to just do one kind of prd. So I will save this and now we can get cloud code to start implementing our feature. Normally the first thing I would do is make a plan. So our give prompt we are building a beautiful online ID front end. help me break down into key components and put them together in the end. And here I'm going to do shift tab. It will firstly get into this auto accept edits mode, but you want to shift tab again into plan mode. So this plan mode is a really really useful feature. When the agent is in plan mode, it has this special system prompt and limit access to tools. So it will focus on doing things like web search to understand the latest like tax stack or documentations and also planning the architecture and in the end it will generate final reports and this planning sometimes will take a while for any feature that is semi complicated. I would always do this plan mode first back and forth a few times to align the plan with cloud code and only after I getting it start implementing the feature. So here you will see that it is showing task. When you see task it basically means cloud code is calling a sub aents that is specifically doing this planning and research. So at default cloud code has 17 different tools that can do things like run command line, read and find files, file operations and web search. And this task tool basically means it will launch a new agent for keywords and file search. When cloud code agent is calling this task tool, it basically is creating another agent that has almost all the tool except those planning related tools like task to-do and this agent will receive a well-defined tasks from the parent agent do a list of things and in the end say here are the findings. Only the last part which is summary of the findings will be sent back to the parent cloud code agent. And this is one message they have to really save the token consumption for the parent agent because otherwise the main agent might be flooded with all sorts of context. And knowing this, you can actually utilize this task to a lot better. For example, you can actually prompt cloud code to use task two to set up multiple parallel agent to do different task at the same time. But also if there's a task that you know already, it's going to read some very large files. Try to prompt cloud code to just use task two to do this because that will help you save the token a lot on the main agent. So now I finished the planning and come back with a plan about what are the layout system should look like file explorer which makes sense the code editor component it decide to use existing library and then it will break down into different phases. The phase one is just install everything and the phase two is implement file explorer code editor terminal integration and some advanced feature as well as the project directory plan. So this is a pretty good plan and obviously I can keep planning but here I can also ask it to start do this plan and next is that it will create this detailed implementation plan incloud/tasks and I will click yes. So it will create this task folder and create this online ID front end with a detailed plan and tasks. So now I can ask it to let's do phase one. It will create a to-do based on the phase one requirements. So while it is running I'm just going to quickly talk about this to-do. So I was quite curious how did cloud code actually handle this to-do. Do they handling to a different like planner agent to just specifically come up with plan and programmatically get the agent to do one task of another? So I did some investigation. What I found is the entropy team actually took the the simplest setup possible. Uh but it's really effective. It has this tool called to-do right description is basically use this tool to create and manage and structure task list. They have a very specific prompt talk about like when to use this tool, when to not use this tool, some example as well. So every time when agent run this tool, it will try to come up a list to-do and each to-do will have the content ID, priority and status. It is as simple as this. So now if we come back here it finish all the to-do it also going back to our doc and adding details about what it actually did. So it marked this as completed and also document all the things that it does. Cool. So it has this component implemented that it has this file explorer resizable. It has terminal. I can add multiple different terminal as well. Nice. Obviously you can see I can continue going because it already have trace of the overall plan. So every time it just need to focus on one specific piece of work and if there any time when the plan change we can just prompt it to update the stock. So this is kind my like doc or spec focused workflow with cloud code. But what's really cool about cloud code is that you can customize cloud code in very deep manner. So one super interesting feature is hooks. So hook is a feature that allow you to define things to happen programmatically when cloud code takes certain actions. One of the most basic and common hook that I use is this stop hook. So I can define a rule here when cloud code stop which means it finish the task it try to run this command which will basically play the system sound to notify me that the task has been completed. So with this one if I just send a message to cloud it'll play this notification sound after the task is finished. So this is basically simple concept of hook but interesting thing is that the customization here can go pretty deep. Cloud code allow you to define things to do before or after certain tool is wrong or when user try to send a new message to cloud code so that you can ingest some additional context in as well as when cloud try to compress the conversation history or when a sub agent finishes task and here's a more sophisticated example that I found actually pretty useful. So I can define this post to use hook that every time after cloud code run a edit multi-edit or write to which means it modify or create some new files. It will run this Python file I define here called type check. So this is a feature that I probably missed the most from cursor is that in cursor it has this automatic linked arrow detection and this is really useful context so that cursor can capture those errors even before you run the code and proactively fix issue. But for cloud it didn't have this and this hook will basically replicate that functionality directly. So inside this Python file it might look a bit complicated but I will quickly explain to you what that means. So we firstly try to get input data. Each hook comes with a list of different inputs that you can use. For example for the post to use input it will automatically give you a list data that you can use in this like which tool it is what are the input agent generate for this tool and what's the output of tool. And in our case, we want to get the file so we know which file agent just created or modified. Then we'll get a file pass. And if this file extension is ts or tsx, which means it's typescript, we will run the type check. And if this type check failed, this is a part where we can send feedback back to cloud code. So you will do the print and the file will be system std error. Here I define code to be two. So code two means that it is a blocking arrow and std arrow will be fed back to cloud code so that it can use that to define the next actions. But you can also define other asset code that will still send message back to cloud code but it won't blocking it from continue the next action. So with this hook if cloud code generates on files that has type errors it will automatically call the script and return back a error message if it has any type. So cloud code can try to proactively fix issue. So this is how hook works and there are a lot of potentials. For example, you can even define some critic agent. After cloud code write any code, it can write a test and validate it or if it write API doc, you can automatically update documentations. I have included a few common hooks that I use a lot in AI builder club. So you can go and grab. If you guys want a more deep dive or hook feature, please comment below, let me know. I'm happy to do another one. On the outside, cloud code also have this commands feature where they do come with a list of predefined command like check cost, set up MCP, memory, models and review PR commands even, but they also allow you to define custom slash commands. For example, I can create a commands folder under cloud and just create something called joke MD and make a joke in all caps. Once I did this, I can do slash and search for joke. Then this command I define here will be showing up. If I click on that, whatever you define here in this command will basically be sent to cloud code almost as a prompt. Network start behave based on the rules you define there. I have another video where I talk about different commands that I predefined that can help you extract specific styling from a screenshots as well as getting cloud code into design mode to design multiple different UI iterations. And you can even have a command to get a cloud code to set up multiple different git work tree to have sub agents working in parallel. So you can go check out this video if you want to learn more. And there's a one package I thought is pretty useful recently called supercloud. It's a open source package that comes with bunch of commands that they predefine and build. For example, I can do slash command SC analyze. This will trigger that command that take cloud into a much deeper code analyze mode. It will create list of to-do to look through the whole codebase and come back with a kind of architecture review. There are other useful things like you can run workflow to look at a PRD doc to get cloud into kind of step-by-step implementation process as well as build command that will help bundle and npm build your projects as well as troubleshoot if you have some weird bug that you don't know how to fix. So this is a really useful package even though the installation is not that straightforward. We need to open in a folder do uv in it first to set up a python project and then do uv as supercloud. This will add this supercloud package and in the end do UV run Python supercloud install then it will take you through the step-by-step installation process but once you install it will be installed at global level so you don't need to keep doing this and all the file will be basically saved to your docloud settings at user level if we open it it will basically add stuff into the cloud MD which link to all the different files that contain more details inside this command folder you can see all the commands that you define here so this kind of quick example of how far the customization you can do with just command feature. Meanwhile, the list of very useful feature and shortcuts that cloud code has that I didn't know initially. Firstly, I can do slash resume to jumping back to a past conversation history and continue the conversation there. This is kind of similar to cursor where you can choose a past conversation. But on the other hand, they also introduces export command. So this feature will allow you to copy the whole conversation history with cloud code. So you can jump between cloud code, cursor, werf or any other coding IDE because you just need to paste in conversation history and no need to worry that cursor don't have the context about what has been done and quite often I will also go to cloud where I have unlimited amount token to do some early exploration. Apart from that another really useful feature is that you can double tap exit and this will allow you to revert back conversation history to a past point. So you can just click that and continue the conversation from that point. This really good because sometimes cloud code will make a mistakes and this can avoid it. The only downside is that if you're in cursor when revert back to a past conversation it will automatically revert back all your files as well but cloud code didn't keep a snapshot. So you actually need to use some external package to do the snapshot and versioning. One of them is called CC undo. So this is a package that will automatically detect all the changes that cloud code has made to your file and allow it to roll back. So I can do CC undo and the list. This will list out all the change that your cloud code has been made and you can do CC undo preview to see the specific change that cloud code has been made and then once you confirm you can do CC undo undo and select a change you want to revert. So this package can work with cloud code handing pretty well. Though the command line might not be the best and easiest way for you to preview the work. There are more userfriendly version like yo-yo where it receive a snapshot and you can add some additional instructions to remember what the changes are. Another quite useful shortcut is that you can type in acceleration mark. And this will get the cloud code into bash mode. So bash mode allow you to run command directly without going outside cloud code. So I can do quickshot car like pmppm install or pmppm add certain package and it will just run the command directly here. So it is really fast but also the more important part is that this context will be part of conversation history so that cloud code will know what are the actions that you've been taken and similarly you can also do hashtag which will activate the memory mode. So here is where you can type in things that you want cloud code to memorize like I'm JSON we're building online ID using chassis and component and then it will ask you to choose where do you want to save this memory it can be per level or can be user level across all the projects and once you confirm it just save that information to the cloudme and the last part I also want to show you the easiest way for you to connect cloud code to kim K2 model if you don't know Kim K2 model is a new open-source coding model that has similar performance like cloud 3.5 to cloud four but 80% cheaper. So it is really good one to experiment if you run out of credits. And the easiest way to set up is that you can open terminal and do code open this zshrc file. If you're on Mac like me, you probably just do this. But if you're on Windows, you might need to change to bash. This will open a file like this. So this will basically control your terminal behavior. So here I will define Kimi API key. And don't worry, I already disabled this key. So it's not going to work for you guys anymore. And I can define kimi where it will export entropic base URL to moonshot using this API key and run cloud. So with this one I can just go to my any terminal and then do kimi. This will open cloud code with the special model that I defined there. So if I type in hi here it is actually going to talk to the kimi k2 model. And similarly you can also define things here like claw bash maintain per working directory to be one. What this will do is that basically every time when cloud is running, it will always append the current working directory into the prompt. So it will always remember where it is instead of running command in run place. So here's a quick overview of how I use cloud code. If you want to learn more, you can join AI builder club where we have weekly sessions to talk through the latest workflow and tips for AI coding and build large language models as well as all detailed rules, hooks and commands that I personally use. So you can copy paste directly. In upcoming weeks, we'll have more detailed breakdown of how does a cloud code actually work behind the scenes and try to rebuild cloud code from scratch so that we can learn the best practice of building effective AI coding agents. I put a link in the description below for you to join. I hope you enjoy this video. Thank you and I see you next time.