# Cursor Browser control Self improving coding agent

Published: 2025-05-07

[Music] I've been using Playright MCP for the past few days to get cursor self-improve the UI and application and become my automated QA assistant that can run sophisticated testings by itself. So today I want to show you what my workflow is and how can you adopt it for your own project. Nowadays you normally hear playright for those browser agent but initially it is introduced to do endtoend testing for web applications. It can simulate browser interaction like text input, mouse click, scrolling the page and extract data so that we can actually write some scripts to simulate how a real user going to interact with the website. For example, I might want to build a task for the normal sign up and check out flow for the AI builder club where user should be able to click a button, type in the email address, joining, receive the code and log to the platform. To do that, I can just write a test script with playright where it can open the browser, go to the website URL, click on the sign up button, type in the email address and clicking on the button. In the end, we can validate if the user actually receive the code to login. And this test can be run every time before I try to push some change to the production code. So you can capture arrow before it goes to production. And this all sounds great. But building test is not exactly fun part of building software. To build those kind of testing script, you normally need to build very specific letters to be able to identify UI elements by using CSS or XP pass. Even though there are tools like cogen which is feature from playright that allow you to do a command line like this which will open up the browser as well as a recorder on the right side so that you can just click through the UI flow like how a real user going to do and on the right side it will automatically capture and generating the testing code for you based on action you taken but still it is quite a manual process and if you change the elements or layout of the web location this test going to break and you need to update your test again but playright released its own MC CP it basically give cursor agent access to the browser and that means a few things. One is that instead of you defining very static test yourself. You can get cursor to use playrite to run the browser and become your QA tester. On the other side because cursor now has access to the web browser. It can see what is going on on the web page identify any UI bugs or flaw in the flow and selfiterate until the application works exactly like what expected. And this to me is such a gamecher. It open up so much possibilities. You can even turn cursor into a general web scripper where you can open the browser, take a snapshot of content available on the page and do complex interaction with web page to get specific information that you want. So today I'm going to tell you what are different ways you can utilize playrite mcp to do automated testing and get cursor to self fixing the issue. But before we dive into that, I know many of you are building AI applications or integrating AI into your own business. And choosing the right model, prompting techniques is often a challenging task since there's so many new stuff every month. That's why I want to introduce you to this free playbook from Mind Stream. It breaks down everything from which AI model is best for which task to advanced prompting frameworks like GRWC that can boost your results up to 55%. A feature compare top models like GB4.5, cloud 3.7, work 3 plus practical tips on using specialized model for business tasks like how cloud 3.7 sonnet is best for sortful analysis across long documents while mix large focus on mass problems. So no more guessing work about which model fits your specific task best. And what I love the most is there are advanced prompting frameworks and power techniques for better prompts. Those are exact strategies that I use when working with AI to create better code and automate testing workflows. Those frameworks and techniques transform mediocre outputs into exceptional ones and can be applied for scenario like prompting turser to use playright MCP to do automated testing better and you can download this playbook for free. I have put a link in the description below so you can click and check out. And now let's get back to how you can use playright MCP. Firstly, let's set up the playright MCP. So to use playright MCP, you actually can't use the latest version for now because the latest version somehow has some issues. I will go to the mpm package. The last version that I found quite stable is this 0.0.2. So if you go to cursor at mcp this is setup I will have. So playright and run mpx at playright/mcp at 0.0.2. And there are also some additional configurations I have here. One is this d-config to a specific configuration file that I created here. So playright allow you to define configuration file that including all the different settings you have like which type of browser it should be using what are device it should simulate the user profile and whether should be using vision stuff like that. I specifically use this because I have a few different settings that I often use to making sure it can go through certain website that has anti-bot setup like those special arguments the user agent initial scripts. If you're interested you can join the AI builder club. I have specific content that dive deep into how to handle antibboard setup as well as website that require login and authentications. I have put a link in the description below for you to join. So for this specific case, I will create this config file and do d-config and point to this specific file. I also do d-vision to turn on the vision ability so that cursor can actually see what's going on the web page. And I will actually create two different MCP servers, one with vision, one without vision. That's because vision model is particularly good at certain scenario like when you wanted to view what's going on the page and iterate the UI but it is less good at allocated specific position to click or UI elements to interact with and that is quite essential when you want playright to do the testing. So I will have another MCP called playright test which don't have the vision model. And now when I go back to MCP I can see there are two MCPS added at any given time I will just turn on one of them and firstly I will use the one with vision model to show you how can you use playright to run the application look at UI and self iterate to improve the interface. So here we have a basic to-do app the UI individual component looks actually pretty good but altogether just something looks a bit off. This is a very common scenario when you do AI coding. It's that 20 or 30% missing that makes the UI just not as sleek. So I'm going to give prompt. Please use playright MCP to view the UI. Identify area to improve for UI and iterate it until it looks perfect. And here I just put a small text here. Make sure the width of browser in MCP to be 700 pixel so it's easier for me to just show you guys side by side. So it will open the browser and resize to be smaller one as you can see here. Then it will do this browser screen capture to look at what's on the UI here. then start doing the iterations. The first thing you would do is try to refine the car spacing and input field. So spacing does look a little bit better especially around this part of UI. So it change to something like this which does actually looks better. And the last bit is that the task item background and spacing could be adjusted for even more notion style and we could improve alignment. Cool. So after a few rounds of iteration and feedback, the UI is a lot more clean now. much better than what we have before. And this is all thanks to Playright MCP ability to look at a screenshots directly and make more accurate iterations. Next, let's talk about how to use Playright MCP to do automated UI testing. Let's assume I just turn this to-do app into a fully functional application that requires some login and once people log in, they can start adding to-do tasks like prepare the scripts. Assume the testing we want to do is we want to making sure the login authentication works and we also want to test whether users can add task successfully and meanwhile I also add this cursor rules. So our give prompt we have a simple to-do app set up in NexJS. Now let's test application using the playright MCP. Firstly let's test if you can login successfully and then test if users can successfully add to-dos and mark things as completed. So you can see it first they try to inject the rules that we just written here which is two specific things one is that making sure you always resize screen to this way so it's easier for us to view and also the select tab index start from one instead of zero so this is one kind of problem I often see they have for some reason it keep failing to focus on the specific input and I think this is because we are using the vision which is great for UI iterations but not as great for doing the tests. I'm going to disable the original one but use a playright test instead. And just to making sure I also restart the cursor and it successfully put in the email and password sign in and then start testing adding the tasks change the label. Click add and the task has been added and I also check if the show complete function works as well. Great. This you can see it's pretty sophisticated. It did pretty complex test flow. What's really really cool is that obviously this test is really smart but it does consume token and credits every time because it is going through live learning model to make it reusable every time. I think there are two approaches. One is that since this prompt already works you can create a folder called tests and then just save all those test prompts and every time it just goes through this flow to do the tests as a AI agent but obviously the downside of that is that it does cost money. So what you can also do is that give it a prompt after it successfully complete the flow that you expected and then say now let's create a reusable playright UI test based on the flow above so I can run as automated test every time. So it will install playright test set up the playright configuration which will store the information about which URL to go what's the browser it should be using for testing and then it create a UI test that we can use and now you can see it write a bunch of different tests for testing logging and adding tasks complete tasks and then it tried to run the test itself which it passed but three of them failed I can just prompt it to continue which will reflect what are the arrows in the test and update the test here. Now all the tests has been written for your to-do app and it also have a raid me that including how to run those tests. It even create a GitHub action that if you push this ripple to GitHub every time when you want to merge some new change to your GitHub repo, it will has to go through those tests and only after those tests are passed then you will be able to push to production which will makes whole process fairly automated and all you need to do is really just open the terminal. If you want to test manually, all you need to do just run this mpm run test end to end and it'll just automatically run through all those task and tell you if they pass or not. So this is how you can use playr MCP to do more AIdriven tests either using large range model agent or let articulate the specific testing scripts that you can use for any new changes that you are trying to push in production. If you're interested, you can join the AI build club where I have step-by-step setup guide for everything I show in this video. a more in-depth course of how to best set up to avoid antibbot as well as website that require login and authentications alongside with many other in-depth content from either me or other industry experts I talked to around AI coding and building large language model applications in production. And we also provide premium tool that will really bootstrap your AI coding process like a platform that convert your ideas into a product requirement dot that can steer AI coding agent better as well as launch kit that already set up the authentication superbase and stripe. But most importantly, you'll be joining a community of top AI builders who are launching and building their own AI startups who might already have the answer to the challenge that you are facing today. I have put the link in the description below for you to join. I hope you enjoyed this video. Thank you and I see you next