# Cant code Build these 10k mo apps

Published: 2025-08-11

No code. Are non-developers actually making money with apps? Or is it a waste of your time which might be better spent just learning how to code or outsourcing all this out? Well, we've been doing our research here at Starter Story and that's what we're going to find out today. And most importantly, I'm going to be showing you ideas today that can be built without being super technical. Each of these ideas I'm going to show you is making at least $10,000 a month. And for each one, I'll go over the specific app that was built and the idea behind it, how you could build something like this with no code or vibe coding tools, and how these apps grew and got their first customers. If you're ready to build something similar to the ideas I share today, well, you can check out Starter Story Build. It's our 12-day program where you'll come up with an idea, build it with AI tools, and ship it to the real world. I'll put a link in the description for that. But without further ado, let's dive into our no code database right here. There's a ton of ideas in here and I'm just going to be going over a couple today. I'll put a link in the description if you want to access this database of 100 ideas, but let's hit the first one right now. This one right here is called User Loop. I'm going to check this out real quick. User loop. How this no code SAS grew from 10KMR with ease. Before we even go and look at what this app is, I always like to look in starter story we have what app does this problem solve? Because all good successful businesses solve some sort of painful problem. So, User Loop simplifies gathering customer feedback for Shopify merchants, turning potentially overwhelming data into clear, actionable insights to boost sales and customer satisfaction. Okay, so I like this. Seems like this is something that helps people who runs Shopify stores get more information about their customers. Let's go check out the website real quick here. Okay, we have userloop.io. And really quickly, I'm getting a sense that this is some sort of Shopify plugin that collects customer information. So, for example, you check out. I'm looking at this right here. You check out from Shopify. And it can ask you a question like, "Where did you come from? How was your experience?" And this is really useful for people who run bigger Shopify stores or any business running online. Hey, I want to get more information on where my customers are coming from. If I can get this data, then I can see, oh, most of my customers are coming from YouTube. Okay, I'm going to create more YouTube videos. Right? This is really, really valuable data for people to get. But how do you get this data? Well, you could put something on your website that collects surveys and you can get this information. Before we even get into how to build something like this, I just want to talk about why I like this business idea. This is a Shopify app. And I'm on their app store page right here. And as you can tell, this isn't a huge app. They don't have a huge amount of reviews, 24 reviews, but they're all five stars. And I personally love Shopify apps and really more generally plugins that exist on a marketplace because it has built-in customer base and built-in distribution. You know that millions of Shopify stores exist and there are a lot of people out there looking to customize it, improve it, whatever it is with their Shopify app. So, what I think is really cool about business ideas like these and I think it's a great first business idea is build a plugin. Build it on any sort of marketplace that's big. Shopify, Slack, monday.com, notion. There's lots and lots of huge platforms out there and you don't need an audience to get started. You don't need a big marketing budget to get started. A lot of people are going to find you just through the Shopify app store, which I'm going to talk about in a second. And I'm going to go back to the starter story case study right here. And let's go over the section of how he built this thing. And I'm seeing right here already that he built the platform using Bubble, a no code solution that allowed for rapid prototyping and iteration. The initial version of user loop developed in just a few days over a holiday period started as a simple tool that sent emoji reactions emails for feedback collection. Got it. Okay. So the first thing that I think is cool about this is yeah you can build something this with no code tools. I think bubble is something that's definitely works. I've interviewed a few people through the starter story channel who have actually built real businesses on bubble and I think it's a great platform to start. So instead of doing the whole Shopify integration and building the whole Shopify app and doing all these things, it seems like he actually started with a simpler MVP. But I am reading right here that they're still built on Bubble because Bubble has a lot of flexibility. Then they use some other tools like Hook Deck, OpenAI, and MX for different things inside of Bubble. So I think it's important to point out the MVP thing. But now let's talk about growth. How does a business like this actually grow and get customers? I think the most important thing which I sort of talked about earlier is it's Shopify integration. More specifically, this concept called ASO, which is app store optimization. There's a video that I'll put right here where we talked to a founder of a different Shopify app who's doing like 4 to 5 million a year. And his secret sauce was really just app store optimization. So, what that means is have a good-look app store page right here. As you can see, it's designed nicely. It looks professional. it has all the keywords. So if someone is searching for surveys that will come up and then focus on getting five star reviews. The more reviews you get, the more your app will be surfaced to the top because Shopify wants you to have a good experience in the app marketplace using other app. And then it's just a game of building a great product, getting reviews, and you don't need to spend a whole lot of marketing. This is a great business idea. This is definitely something you can build without code. Even for the more complicated stuff that can be done with vibe coding tools like potentially cursor, claude code and that sort of thing. So I think this is a really really cool business idea that can be built without code. If you want to learn more about this, you can check out their profile on starter story which is a part of the database. Without further ado, let's get to the next business idea that's making $33,000 a month that I think you can build without a bunch of technical expertise. Easy Gen. This is an AI tool for generating LinkedIn content. And before you click off right now, I do think this idea is actually really cool. It's making $33,000 a month as the time that we researched this business. So let's take a look at what it does. Okay, so this is how AI SAS Easy Genen hit 33K MR in 5 months. Easy Genen solves the problem of timeconsuming LinkedIn content creation and offering an affordable AI tool that transforms ideas into polished posts, making content accessible and manageable for professionals who need to maintain an active presence without spending hours writing. So, it's a huge timesaver. The painful problem is I don't want to spend a bunch of time writing LinkedIn content. I want to hang out with my family and work on my business. That's a painful problem that deserves a good solution. How does this app actually work? Let's go check out their website right now. This is easy genen right here. The LinkedIn post generator that works. I do like that they have a video right here that shows how it works. I mean, let's check out this video. Okay, two ways to use Easy Genen. My favorite way is that you go on Pinterest, you select an image, you download it. Hopefully, it's an infographic and then you just drag and drop the topic and then Easy Gen's going to extract the text. >> Okay, cool. This app is quite simple. You can go check out the website if you want to see what it does. I don't want this to make it sound like this is such an easy business or something like that, but the app itself is quite simple really. There's a place where you can upload a photo or put in some content of what you want to talk about and then it just spits out a LinkedIn post that you can copy and paste over to your LinkedIn and post it. From what I can see here, it doesn't seem to actually even have theuler feature where it post it for you on LinkedIn. I think that's cool and shows that the hard part is actually just writing the great content and you can paste it over pretty easily. Let's talk about how you could build something like this. Okay, so from what I can see, what this app does, and I'm sure it does a lot more stuff, but there's really like two core technologies that it uses here. The first one is the Open AI, or maybe it's clawed or something else, but it's the vision API. It has this feature where you can upload a photo. Well, the Open AI vision API makes it really easy to understand what that photo says or has on it. So, that's the first thing. Then it's using another OpenAI API, potentially the GBT 40 or 4.1 text generation. This takes the input, which is the photo or other text input, and then outputs the actual LinkedIn post, and it's probably trained on a few LinkedIn posts. This app itself is also just a web app. It's probably not too complicated in the grand scheme of things. This is something that you can build with a tool like Lovable. And Lovable is really great specifically for web apps. So building an app that you can access from your browser or from your mobile browser. Shameless plug, I will shout out the starter story build boot camp specifically for building web apps where you will learn lovable suabase, GitHub and a bunch of other tools. And in this boot camp, you'll come up with an idea. You'll build this idea with AI tools. We'll help you with a bunch of stuff like authentication, database, and a bunch of things like that. And then we'll help you ship that idea to the real world that real customers can use. So, this is definitely something that you can build with a web app and definitely with vibe coding or no code tools like bubble or potentially lovable and some of the other new tools. Let's jump into their pricing real quick. We're here. I just want to show that this is an app that charges a decent amount of money. $60 a month for the monthly plan and the annual plan is $600 a year. You get two months free. I think that pricing may sound like a lot, but when you think about the type of customer that's using this, professionals on LinkedIn, maybe companies are using it, uh people with inside companies are using it, and I think that that that's where that pricing can actually make sense. And of course, we will never skip the growth part of the business. How did this business grow? Well, we have some information on this in our star story case study, which click the link to the database below. This business, the number one way it grew was through LinkedIn, which is actually kind of genius. And this is this concept called dog fooding where this guy Ruben, he's building out his LinkedIn profile. He's using his tool to build out his LinkedIn profile. He's developing it. He's iterating on it. He's making it better. And then he's having these maybe big LinkedIn post. It's getting a lot of engagement. And he can reply to those LinkedIn posts and say, "Hey, this post was generated with EasyGen, my tool." And now all of a sudden, you have proof that this tool works. and you have this built-in distribution of thousands or millions of people viewing your LinkedIn posts that you created about creating on LinkedIn and then it just really makes sense for someone to click in and maybe want to try your tool and pay for it as well. So, I think this is a really cool business. It's a somewhat simple tool that you could build. But obviously, don't go and just copy this business and build a LinkedIn generator tool. Think about similar use cases where people are wasting a bunch of time writing content. Maybe it's posting content on X, maybe it's on Reddit, maybe it's emails, I don't know. There's so many different ways to tackle this problem. I think this is a great business and that's why I wanted to show it to you guys. All right, let's jump into the last idea we're going to be sharing today. This is actually probably my favorite idea for reasons that you may not expect. So, this is the Agent Nest. It's a SAS for real estate agents marketing content and it is making $10,000 a month. Cool little business, high margin business, fully digital business. This is our case study right here. And as you guys know, we're going to dive right into the problem that this starts. If you're watching this right now, I hope this sticks with you. But what problem does this business solve? If we can understand what the painful problem it's solving, then we can sort of back into other businesses that we could potentially build. So, the agent Nest helps real estate agents who struggle to find time or expertise for self-marketing by giving them customizable, readytouse digital print materials that will save them countless hours. Boom. Just like the last idea we talked about, saves people time from writing LinkedIn posts. This is saving people time from marketing their real estate business. And I don't know a whole lot about the real estate business, but what I do know is that I really like business ideas like these, but let's check out their website to see exactly what their business does. Okay, this is the affordable monthly membership for real estate agents. That doesn't really say anything to me. I'm not a real estate agent, but let's see what you get. Over 3,000 pieces of marketing content in counting. 2,000 customizable social media posts made for Okay, I see what they're doing. And this is genius. This is what I call the vault strategy. Maybe it's the template strategy or the template database, but I love businesses like this. Why? Because this is what I built for Starter Story. Starter Story is essentially a vault of case studies about successful businesses and business ideas. You can see all of our case studies right here. You can filter through them and you can read all them. This is a business that I've built over many years. This is our database right here that the one we're just talking about. Now, I've built this up, but at the end of the day, it's just a big database of a bunch of data and interesting articles that people who want to start businesses want to pay for. That's exactly what we're doing here at Starter Story. And Starter Story, my main business, has generated millions of dollars in revenue. I love this kind of business. But let's talk about how you could actually build something like this. And I have no affiliation with this product here, but I have heard it being passed around behind the scenes on building with no code. This app is called Softer here. Again, I have no affiliation with it, but I'm sure a lot of people will download after watching this, but it's maybe less known or less popular right now than the the lovables of the world and and cursors, but this is a nice maybe a little bit more beginner angle. And I'm looking at their templates. They have templates right here. This is the marketing campaign management template. And as you can see right here, you could probably create something similar where you have a vault of templates. So the question that I have for you if you're watching this is unless you're really into real estate, which I'm guessing that most people watching this aren't, you're probably not going to go and build the real estate SAS like we have here because you don't have as much expertise in that and you'll eventually get bored and give up. But what is the thing that you have a lot of expertise in? What do you know a lot about that you could create a vault or a database about? Maybe if you're a salesperson, it's a vault of cold emails. I don't know. There's so many ideas. Plug that into chat GBT and see if maybe there's something you could do. I think that building something like this would be quite easy to do at least to get to the MVP and validation stage. But as we always do, let's talk about the growth. How does a business like this grow? You can create the vault in the database, but you got to get it in front of people. And I'm reading the case study right here. And it looks like the main way that Molly did this, well, the first thing that she did, which is really, really smart, is that she had built up contacts in the industry and she just cold emailed all 1,000 of them. I guarantee you that this got her at least initial users and probably a couple paying customers or at least those people that she emailed eventually became paying customers and then she built it up from there. That's another reason why you have to think about what do you know, what are you specialized in because likely you have contacts, you have people, you have users that are already waiting for your tool. Okay, that's it for no code business ideas. I hope you guys like the examples I shared. If you want to see more examples, just go check out the database that I linked below and you can go look through a bunch more examples in there. Please let me know what you thought about those examples or if you have any more examples, put them in the comments. Lastly, I will just share starter story build. That's build.st starterstory.com. You can check out some of our programs, which is developing web apps, developing mobile apps, and a bunch of other stuff that we have in there. I'll put the link in the description for that as well. That's all I have for today. Let me know what types of business ideas you want me to cover next. Peace.