# The dirty secret of 1M apps

Published: 2025-08-27

Today, I'm going to let you in on the dirty little secret of successful ideas. Nvidia, Shopify, Stripe, some of the biggest companies in the world. Well, what do they all have in common? They all capitalize on the opportunity of selling shovels. A gold rush was happening. They sold the pans in the shovels. Genius, right? Well, how can we apply that same idea to businesses people like you and me can build? That's what we're going to be going over today. Three real world examples of businesses that you can start that could make over $50,000 a month. For each business, we'll go over the idea, what it does, and how it makes money, the specific gold rush they capitalized on, and other ideas you can start just like it. Again, these are not theoretical ideas. These are real founders that our team has either interviewed or researched, and all of them are selling shovels in one way or another. I'm really excited to do this video and I'm especially excited to talk about the last business in this video. But if you watch this and realize you want to shortcut the building process, too, well, check out Starter Story Build. I'll put it as the first link in the description. Starter Story Build is where we'll help you go from an idea to a real world functioning app in just 12 days, and you'll do it all with just AI tools. All right, now let's dive into the businesses. I've got the Million-Dollar Shovels starter story database right here in front of me. I will put this link also in the description. But in this database, you can access hundreds of shovel related ideas, read case studies, and get inspiration on ideas that are working right now. Okay, let's dive into the first one right here. This one is called Shipfast, and at the time of interview, it was making $50,000 a month. That's crazy. Let's go check out what this does. Here we have how Mark Lou made $528,000 in four months with a simple code boilerplate. And I love this word here. This is boilerplate. This is shovel 101. I imagine if you're watching this and if you're in the scene, you know who Mark Lou is. He is super awesome and he's built a bunch of companies, a bunch of apps. I think his one he's most famous for probably is Ship Fast. That's what we'll talk about today. So, let's go check out the website, which we can click right here. And this is ship your startup in days, not weeks. This is the next JS boilerplate with all you need to build your SAS AI tool or any other web app to make your first dollar online fast. Okay, basically what this does if you are not familiar is instead of having to install all these tools and configure all these tools and do all these things and set up payments and set up O and do all these things, you can download it, you can launch your product in a day and you don't have to spend all this time. This is the stuff that stops people, it creates a lot of friction and it stops people from actually shipping. That's what this does. And this is just such a great example of a shovel. Now, let's talk about the shovel, right? So, why is this a shovel? And why does this sell? Well, so it says right here that they had 7,450 customers. That's insane. Oh my gosh, I didn't realize it was this big. Let's do a little bit of back of the napkin math on how much money this boilerplate has potentially made. 7,400. So, let's go check out their pricing. What I'll do is I'll usually take the middle plan and I'll do a little calculation on that. So I'll do uh 249 times 7,400 or something like that. That means that obviously he may have had lower prices before. He may have given away free stuff. Who knows exactly how he's calculating that? But it's possible that he's made $1,842,600 through selling this boiler plate. That is lifechanging money and it is the perfect example of the shovel, right? I don't know if he made that much, but it's probably pretty close to it. That is the power of selling a shovel. There's a good video on our main YouTube channel that talks about his realization, and I'll put that up here if you want to go watch it. Let's talk about the market. Well, really, it's what gold rush are they capitalizing on? And I just did a little bit of research here. What does this cater to? This caters to software developers or people that sort of know how to code uh but want to build software and online businesses. And this has 27 million developers. And I wanted to know like how big is this market, right? There are 27 million software developers in 2023 and there will be 45 million by 2030. Obviously, you're not going to hit all those developers. You're going to hit the people that want to start their own business and want to stop working for the man, right? If you do some research on this, how many people want to be their own boss, which is the whole idea behind solarreneurship, freedom of your time, be able to work on exactly what you want. 62% of adults say they would prefer to be their own boss. So by that sort of logic, that market could be as big as 16.2 million. And as AI continues to make it easier to start a business, you don't need to have these big teams anymore. You can be a soloreneur and you can make a lot of money. And that's kind of what we cover on Starter Story. Now, let's talk about the shovel. Why is this a shovel that's worth buying? Well, think about it this way. Instead of having to configure Nex.js, Tailwind, and Stripe and learn all these things. A lot of people that want to build stuff, they may be learning these things for the first time. They realize, okay, I can go learn them or I can just focus on the things that matter, which is marketing, having a nicel looking landing page, the idea itself, making money. These are all important things. So, imagine you're going to the store and uh we're in the gold rush and the store has all these kind of cheap shovels, right? This is a $3 shovel and this is and they all sort of are shovels for different things. What Shipfast does is he actually takes all these shovels and puts them into one shovel that you pay a little bit more money for, but it's more convenient because you don't have to lug around six shovels and learn how to use each one. You get one shovel. It's like a multi-purpose shovel and it just works. I don't know how many times I said shovel right there, but you get the point. That's what I think is really cool about this business and why it did so well. It saves you time and prevents you from having to do tedious stuff like learn all these different tools. Okay, how could you do something similar today? Well, starter story, I have the idea remixer. Basically, I'm remixing the idea for shipfast and I kind of chatted with my idea remixer for a while to really kind of try to come up with an idea. I asked a bunch of different things and sort of got its opinion on different things. This is a really cool tool inside starter story where you can take any successful business inside starter story which we have thousands of them and you could sort of try to remix it to what might work. Now this is what I think could potentially work. Um although you never know you have to build it and launch it and see what happens. So what I wanted to think about is like okay why was Shipfast successful and what's the new gold rush where you could do this sort of thing and I think it's AI where Shipfast allowed you to not have to learn like six different tools to just set up a successful product and get working. I feel you could do the same with AI coding tools potentially. So right now to be fast and efficient with AI coding which is just like the greatest skill in the world. Shout out starter story build. You have to learn claude code lovable cursor MCPS and then every day there's a new technology that's coming out that makes you better faster. And then there's also tradeoffs. Which ones should I use? Should I not use? When should I just get started? When should I stop learning? What if there was a sort of ship fast for AI? So a a pack for AI tools that says here's the six tools. We're going to put it into one thing that you can download and or maybe it's potentially a video or a course or something like that which would teach you all the necessary things to get started which is what Shipfast does. It gives you the only necessary things to get started so that you don't have to waste time learning and configuring all these tools. So that's my sort of ideas. Take Shipfast and do it in the new gold rush which is AI coding tools. I think that could be pretty good. All right, let's get to the next one. Okay, let's dive into idea number two. This is Faceless.video, AI powered platform for automating faceless vid dot dot dot videos, I'm guessing. And that is making a million dollars a year. That's that that famous number that adds up to a million dollars a year. That is cool. I actually think we interviewed these guys on the main channel. Super cool shovel-based business. Let's dive into it. So, this is how two founders built a million-doll ARR faceless video business in a year. So, what problem does Faceless dovideo solve? Faceless.video saves creators hours of work by automating the entire process of making and posting videos, letting them focus on growing their audience, right? This is such a great pitch, if you will. Hey, this video that I'm building right here, this is takes a lot of time. There's an editor. There's me having to film it. We have to do all this work. We have to make sure the video is good. All these things. Well, here's a solution that just automates the entire process. That's what they're doing for short form video. But regardless, let's just take a look at what they're doing and try to understand. Ah, okay. This makes perfect sense to me. You can create a faceless YouTube account in one click. You guys all know this. If you go on Instagram or Tik Tok or anything like that, there's all these videos that are like AI. Now, I'm not sure if that's exactly a good thing or a bad thing, but that's not what we're here to talk about today. We're here to talk about shovels, right? These guys are creating the shovel, which is the tool to create the videos for this gold rush. But what are we gonna be talking about today? We're gonna be talking about the actual gold rush. Because if you guys watching this can identify more gold rushes as they come, as they happen, then you can build things like this that make millions. So, let's understand what this gold rush is, right? This is the faceless YouTube channel video gold rush. If you are in the space at all, you might have seen this. But if you go to YouTube right now and you search faceless YouTube channel, this is a great way to evaluate gold rushes. How big is this gold rush right now? Just type it into YouTube or other platforms like Instagram, just other social media, and see just do a spot check, do a little vibe check on how big this thing is. Well, this looks huge to me. Look, I'm seeing how to start a faceless YouTube channel with AI 1-hour course that has a million views. That's big. That's a big gold rush. It's not as big as the AI gold rush, but this is sort of like mini gold rush that's happening. And clearly, you can build shovels on top of this gold rush. This is interesting right here. This is the faceless YouTube channel plague. Seems to be almost like a criticism of the gold rush. That's also another good sign is that it's so big that someone can make a video and get 7.1 million views hating on the gold rush. Well, as entrepreneurs, as people building cool stuff here, we're not in the business of hating things. We're in the business of building things. And this business is a great example of just a pure raw shovel. People want to make money online with faceless videos and AI content. Give them the tools to do that. My question, and I think what you might be thinking here, okay, that sounds like hard to build. That sounds really, really scary to build. Well, I was reading through this here and I remember with the video that we did on the main channel with them, which I'll put up right here, and you can watch that if you want. These guys didn't have crazy ex tech experience or coding knowledge. They actually built this app using Bubble, a noode development platform. Well, they were actually able to really hack this idea together with Bubble and just APIs, right? I'm guessing that this Faceless.video video app uses some sort of image generation API such as Google Veo or uh Sora with uh chat GBT open AI and it shows you that some shovels you don't need to have this crazy tech experience. This is really just a wrapper around those APIs. To end this, I think this is a really cool idea. Let's think about how we can find some other ideas from this. I've been chatting with the Starter Story idea remixer and I found I think two pretty interesting ideas. Producing baseless podcast content. I feel like podcasts are already faceless. So maybe there's something interesting there where podcasts can be generated purely with AI. I imagine that's going to be something that's going to get pretty big from either creators that don't want to have to record themselves but have something interesting to say or potentially just purely AI generated podcasts. I will look into that one a little bit more, but that could be interesting. And the other one is simply just to do an audience shift on something like this. maybe niche this down to something that's specific. Right now, it's like a generator for people that want to build faceless channels. Or what if you could create a shovel in a somewhat different space, for example, in real estate or maybe people that do like online cooking channels or even sports commentary. That could be interesting. I think that is an amazing shovel idea and I hope you guys find this one interesting. All right, the last business that we're going to dive into here, the last shovel of the gold rush, uh, that we're going to dive into is one that's very personal to me, and that's Starter Story. Starter Story is a business that I started, and hopefully I'll be able to share some interesting insights in relation to the shovel and gold rush idea that we're talking about today. So, as you guys probably already know, Starter Story is a database of entrepreneur success stories, case studies, and business ideas. is it makes over $100,000 a month. And let's talk about why this business was successful in the angle of the gold rush and shovel idea. So what problem does Starter Story really solve? Well, Starter Story helps aspiring entrepreneurs by sharing realworld stories of how businesses got off the ground. That's the number one thing that I really try to remember of why I started Starter Story is that I wanted to share and this didn't really exist at the time. I wanted to share like what are people that are making $10,000 a month, $20,000 a month, $30,000 a month, these sort of regular people, not VC backed or whatever. What are the actual things that they're doing, right? How do they actually build this? How do they market this? How do they grow it? How do they find the idea for this? That's what starter story is all about. And as you guys probably know, that's what this video is. We're like sharing real world examples. And on the YouTube channel, we share regular people, not like billionaires or whatever. So that's what starter story is about. That's the problem that it solved. And if you want to learn more about how that business started, if you click on the case study, I actually wrote a blog post every single month when I started Starter Story. And it's kind of funny because when I started Starter Story, I had no idea that it was going to be the business that ended up making millions of dollars. I was starting all these other different things. I was trying to start a SAS. I was trying to get into YC. I was trying to do all these things. and I thought Starter Story would be a cool side project that would maybe help me find a really big idea or something like that. Well, it ended up being the idea. And I think that that's sort of an interesting realization that I had is that I sort of caught on to this gold rush. And when I look back, a lot of it is luck and timing, but I sort of accidentally stumbled into this gold rush and then I just built something on top of it. And I want to show you some data on this to kind of prove this. Well, Starter Story is not necessarily a shovel. I would consider Starter Story to more be a map. So, imagine we were in the gold rush back in the 1840s or whatever. Uh, we're not selling the shovels, but we're selling the map on how to find the gold, right? Back in the day, it was, okay, go here and pan for gold here. There's a lot of gold here, or you hear from your friend that there's this interesting other place, whatever. Here's how to pan for gold. Like, here's the step-by-step tutorial on how to do it. Starter Story does that, but for business ideas, for ideas that you and I can build online, we go and find like real people that actually built cool stuff. We share their stories and that's not only inspiring, but it shows you it's possible and it shows you sort of where to go on the map. I think that's sort of an interesting corlary there. But I also want to show the data behind the gold rush here. So when I started Starry that was in about 2017 and it wasn't as big as it is now in terms of starting your own business back then wasn't as exciting and sexy as it is now and I think this is the best data to prove it. I had already started the business and when things really started to take off was 2020 COVID happened and new business applications which I think is a decent metric for looking at people that want to start their own business. It was generally flat and then it went up like crazy in 2020 and then in 2021 it went even bigger. This is one of the big reasons is the starting your own business gold rush happened and there's all these many gold rushes inside. There's the AI gold rush, there was the crypto gold rush. It's the map for the larger start your own business gold rush. And as things change and evolve, we will continue to be relevant because our number one goal is to show you real people that are building real cool stuff. And oftent times lately those things are like AI or other things which I think is sort of interesting. But anyways, what are some ways that Starter Story gives you the map or fighting the gold. Well, we have a few different products and channels and that sort of thing. I'll show you a couple of them. The first one is our case studies database. And this is like really how I started Starter Story is I just started interviewing entrepreneurs. I turned them into case studies and I put them in a repository that anybody could download really easily and use. This has over 4,000 case studies, I think, now. And all these are successful business. So, this guy sells SAS templates and makes $40,000 a month. This uh girl makes $4,000 a month with her book club questions and lists business, right? There's all sorts of different businesses in here. And the purpose is that we only show successful businesses or people that sort of made it. And hopefully that will give you a little map of how to find things. Then we also have our databases, right? the stuff that we talking about in this video right now. We have the micro SAS ideas database and showing you again a map of like what's successful, what's not, what are some things you could potentially do. We have the idea remixer that we showed you. So, there's lots and lots of things. Then we also have starter story build which helps you actually build the stuff we want to build it. I'm also working on my new app called moat.starterstory.com which helps you market your app. So again, this is more the the map idea that sort of works. And then of course, we have the YouTube channel. I think what's interesting about that is again, we're giving you the map. We're showing what's working right now. For example, this guy, he grew his business using Reddit and Facebook. That's something interesting that seems to be working more and more nowadays. We do a video on that. But if you go back into the archives too, which I think is cool, is you can see that back then we are covering more agencies. That's what was working better back then. And our goal is to always surface people that are doing the things that are working right now, which is a comment that I often see on some of our YouTube videos, like you only cover people that are doing AI apps now. Well, that's because we're only covering the things that are like truly working and growing really fast right now. I don't want to say that those other things don't work, but when I talk to a founder and he's, you know, made $100,000 within a year with AI, I'm like, I we have to make more of these videos because this is what's actually working. So on that same note, I would definitely check out Starter Story Build. This is our program that in about 12 days, you'll come up with an idea. You'll build it with AI tools and you'll ship it to the real world. This is super cool. We have a bunch of different boot camps in there that will help you build your thing. Again, that's sort of the idea of the map. So to kind of tie this whole thing up and put a bow on it, I think that the map idea is really cool. How can you help people understand what's working with content, media, databases, vaults, as you would call them? Take this information and put it in a nice convenient place that people can download. And I think that's one of the best places you can start. Just like I did, I said, I'm not really sure what I want to build, but let's start by creating content, putting myself out there, building in public, talking to successful founders. Well, that turned into a huge business. And looking back, it was kind of genius, but I didn't know that at the time. But I did want to share that with you here. Thank you guys for watching this video. This has been my shovels video, which is actually one of my favorite topics on here. If you can learn anything from this is that look at these huge companies, right? Nvidia, Shopify, Stripe, most of the very fast growing businesses right now are building shovels in a gold rush. Whether you like that or not, it's the truth. Our job as founders and entrepreneurs is to do that. Build, produce, create things that help people solve their problems. Thank you guys for watching. Let me know what you guys want me to cover next to show you more business ideas. I got a million business ideas I can show you here. Let me know what types of ideas you want me to cover. Thank you guys for watching. I'll see you in the next one. Peace.