# Business ideas to build without quitting your job

Published: 2025-09-15

Can you actually make $10,000 a month without quitting your job? Well, that's what we're going to find out today. Three apps making $10,000 a month built by people that waited to quit their full-time jobs until they were ready and cash flowing. And in this video, I'm going to show you them, including what kind of apps they built, how they were able to manage their time with a full-time job and a side project, and potentially why keeping their full-time jobs actually made their businesses more successful. What I'm going to be sharing with you today are not general ideas. These are real apps built by real people that actually had a full-time job and built life-changing businesses. And if you're ready to do the same, definitely check out Starter Story Build. I'll put a link in the description. It's our program specifically for people that have a full-time job that are ready to build an app and do it in just a few days with AI. All right, without further ado, let's dive into these businesses. I got the starter story database right here. There are a bunch of ideas in here that you can actually build and I'll put a link in the description as well for you to check out this database. So yeah, check it out. All right, let's dive into the first idea I'm going to be sharing with you today, which is t. This is a URL shortener and it's doing $15,000 a month. This seems pretty cool. So let's check this out. So t. I built a URL shortener tool with 350,000 active users as a side hustle. And this is built by Tim Leland. And it's doing $15,000 a month. And this is really cool. I mean, it is a URL shortener. Everybody knows what that is. If you have a really long link, you want to shorten that link. And you can put it right there. And you get that t. Looks like they have some pricing here, which is $5 a month, $20 a month, and $50 a month. They also have a link shortener Chrome extension here, which I'll talk about in a second, which kind of ties into the story here. But yeah, he built this idea while he had a full-time job. And I think that's the first little note that I hear that I think is interesting is that he genuinely enjoys building side projects and he says that he does it in his free time. So if you like building side projects, you can imagine yourself doing it and doing it for free and not making any money doing it. That's already a really good sign and it's always something I noticed about people that are making money online. They genuinely enjoy building side projects and they would do it even if if they weren't making any money. So, he had his first side project that gained traction was his weather browser extension that has 200,000 users. He genuinely likes this stuff. Let's talk about how he found the idea. The idea came from Google shutting down its URL shortening service in March of 2019. And that was when he realized that there would be a significant demand for another link shortener tool. And that's a good place to go looking for ideas. Google is famous for shutting down lots of different projects. And whenever Google has projects, they're free, right? So when Google stops, even if it has millions of users, Google may shut it down and people have to go look for alternatives. So every single month there is a Google product shutting down, maybe there's some ideas there. Okay, let's talk about how we actually built this thing. So building the MVP for a link shortener was pretty straightforward and it only took a few days. The MVP included an API to shorten and expand links. And that's sort of the lesson there. I think that's interesting is that this is a simple product. It can be coded up clearly in a few days to get it to work. And that's one of the reasons why I wanted to share this idea for ideas you can build with a 9to-5 is that you should be building somewhat simple projects. They may not make a million dollars on day one or day two, but they're simple enough to just get it out there, start getting users, and then you can figure out monetization later. That brings me to my last point of how he actually grew this thing, right? There's probably thousands of link shorteners out there. Why did this one grow? Well, there's two reasons. The first one that I noticed is that he created a browser extension to do this. I personally hadn't seen that before to have a browser extension that shortens your links for you. Usually, you just go to a website and you do it. But there are probably a bunch of people out there that just want it done in this workflow so they can do it really really quickly. That got him a bunch of users. And the second one uh is this growth loop that he had, which I thought was pretty interesting. Because it's a link shortener, the t.matically advertises itself every time someone shares a link. So, if I shorten a link with T.Y. and I send it to my friend and then he sends it to other people and they send to other people, T.Y is technically growing, right? More and more people are seeing it, which may lead other people to go and shorten more links. And that growth loop keeps happening over and over. He doesn't have to go and do sales or run ads or do anything like that. This thing grows itself because it has this built-in word of mouth type thing. So, to cap this one off, I'll leave you with a nice piece of advice from this founder on how to find ideas. If you're looking for ideas, this is definitely a really cool way to think about it. I've come up with hundreds of ideas, and most of them have been terrible. I like to write down my ideas and come back to them a couple weeks later to see if it still excites me. I will then research the problem to decide if a solution exists. I usually discover an app exists for the problem because there are no new ideas. I then think about how I can improve or simplify the problem and create a better mousetrap. This is the approach I take before building a new app. I think that's really cool. You may go and have an idea, realize there are a bunch of solutions that already exist. Don't stop there. There are still ways to make that idea work, to improve it, to simplify it, to switch it up, to do something. That's exactly what he did. There's tons of link shorteners out there, but he makes $15,000 a month with his, and I think that's really cool. All right, let's check out the next idea that we have here, which is Backlinker. This is AI powered reporter outreach making $20,000 a month built by this guy named Bennett Hayne. So, this is backlinker AI. You get 65% more SEO traffic with okay, outreach backlink. So, yes, I know these here. I get these emails all the time because I have a big website, starterstory.com. People wanting to get back links. This is a little cottage industry, but it's actually really, really big. I guess you get three guaranteed back links. And I could see how AI could really automate this. I love that he grew this to 20K MR in about 13 months. Well, one big reason for that is just the power of AI and what AI can do. He built this while he has a full-time job and he actually still has a full-time job. I did a little bit of creeping on him right here, but this is his uh LinkedIn profile right here and he still has a full-time job working at Adobe tech company. And that's cool. What I noticed when I looked into this and one of the lessons and takeaways I want to share about this case study specifically is that again he built a product in the similar domain and industry as what he was doing in his full-time job. He had a background in digital marketing which you can see by what he was doing at Adobe growth marketing and insights generative engine optimization. These are sort of marketing roles where I'm guessing he knew a lot about marketing SEO and he built a product around that. He already had all this built-up experience. So, he could build something while he had a full-time job. He already had a lot of those knowledge and insights. That's a little thing, but it's very, very important. It's a lot easier to go build something that you have a lot of knowledge around than to go build something totally random. If he went and built, I don't know, a snack business or something like that where he was making protein bars. What does this guy know about protein bars? Right? It's really, really important to build something where you already have knowledge and insights. It's going to give you a huge head start. So, that's really important. Let's go into how he actually built this thing, which I think is super cool. So, he was doing a bunch of link building in SEO. And he didn't just go and build this outreach backlink service, build the whole product, do all this. He did something really smart. Instead of going and building this crazy thing, he initially built it with rudimentary tools. Used automated processes like Zapier. He sort of duct taped it together to see if AI and all these tools could actually work. Then he did something even smarter. Instead of going and building the product again, he actually went on Fiverr and offered it to real clients. Fiverr is a massive marketplace where you can get services for outreach. Backlink outreach would be one of them. He went on there and offered his service to get back links, but he did it as if he was just a freelancer and he was testing his tools along the way to see if they would work. That helped develop out the product, make sure it could work, and see if it was something that he could actually turn into a SAS. So, that's the key takeaway right there. And once he validated those two things, he then went and built the SAS tool, which you can actually use. It's like a real app, a real web app that people can use. And now he charges $300 a month per client to get these back links. And that's the last thing that I think is really interesting here is that he didn't build a cheap product. He built something that cost $300 a month, which would be $3,600 a year. These are real businesses using this. And he doesn't have to have a million clients to have a really, really good business that makes $20,000 a month. at this current pricing right here, $300 per month. That means that he really only needs to have about 60 to 70 clients for him to be making $20,000 a month. So, I think that's really cool. So, that's it. That's a really, really cool business that was built by someone who actually has a full-time job, and then also that SAS money, that software money, building something cool on the side that you already have experience and knowledge in. Okay, let's dive into the last one here, and that is Client Portal right here. So, client portal makes $11,000 a month and that's growing year-over-year and it is a WordPress plugin. So, this Goro Laura Elizabeth, so client portal is a WordPress plugin, but basically it's like if you have clients, it's a portal you can give to your clients for them to go visit and get all your links and onboarding and all that stuff. So, they don't have to email you every single day, how do I find this? How do I find that? It's all in one place. It's nice and professional. Cool idea, really good business. But, let's talk about how she built it while she had a full-time job. She just started client portal because she wanted to build something that would help her in her day-to-day life and make her job easier. And that's what she says right here. Client portal started as something that I made for myself. And that would be the big takeaway here is if you're looking for an idea right now, don't look for ideas. Just look at your full-time job right now and understand what problems you're experiencing there. If you're doing full-time freelancing like Laura did here, maybe look at one problem that you're experiencing there. How can you build a small product that solves that problem? Because if you're experiencing some sort of problem, that means that there are hundreds or thousands or even potentially millions of people that are experiencing that problem too. And you have the unique position of understanding that problem and building something good. And that's what she says right here. I didn't make client portal with the intention of even selling a product at all. I made it with the intention of using it. And in hindsight, that's what made it really, really successful. Okay, let's go to how she actually built this. So that's the next thing that I think is really interesting. She had a full-time job. it was freelancing. That's what she was doing. And she didn't have the cash or the time to actually build something this. So instead of just going and building it, she wasn't a software developer. She couldn't even do that. She said, "Okay, I'm not going to go and build this whole thing and then hope that people will pay for it. Why don't I just go and do pre-sales? So sell the product before it even exists yet." And that's exactly what she did. Instead of investing her own money into it, she decided to launch pre-sales of Client Portal and validate the need for the product and fund the development. And by doing that, she sold $10,000 of pre-sales for this product, meaning people that really really wanted the product and were willing to pay for it before it even existed. That's what she did, and that funded the development of the plug-in. And that really ties into her final piece of advice here that she has, which is get your product or idea into the wild as quickly as you can. actually by launching this pre-sales campaign, she had people on the hook that were ready to buy that needed this product. And that was a huge momentum builder for her to actually build this and actually launch this. And on reflection, she realizes if she didn't have that incentive, I'm not sure client portal would even be released now 3 years after writing this. And that's the power of doing pre-sales and just putting something out there even if it doesn't feel finished. So, I think client portal is an amazing example of something you can build while you have a full-time job where you can slowly move your revenue over to software revenue where you don't have to trade your time for dollars. So, those are the three ideas I want to share with you today. You can go to this database right here in Starter Story. I'll put a link in there. You can see a bunch more ideas of real people that built real businesses while they had a full-time job. Starter Story, the business that I built, I also built that while I had a full-time job. So, it is definitely possible. and maybe it doesn't make a whole lot of sense to actually go and quit your job. Instead, start building stuff, make some money on the side, and then you can feel really confident about quitting that job when you're ready. And also, one quick thing that I wanted to point out, Laura had to spend a couple thousand on a developer to turn her idea to life. This was many years ago. Now, in the age of AI, you can just do it yourself in just a couple of weeks, maybe even less. Even if you have a full-time job and no coding experience, you can build something just like this. You can build WordPress plugins. You can build web apps. You can build anything. If you want to build something like the people we talked about in this video, definitely check out Starter Story Build. In about a week or two weeks, if you take one of our programs, you'll come up with an idea. You'll build it. You'll ship it to the real world and have it ready to start getting customers and start making revenue. Let's start building. Let's go. I'll see you guys in the next one. Hope you enjoyed this. Let me know you want me to cover next. Peace.