I just can't imagine anything more stupid geopolitically to alienate the forces that have a disproportionate amount of power because of their economic strength. Your thoughts on that? >> And you know, we could go on like this with the um basically treating everybody with a very heavy hand and forgetting that one of the biggest reasons for US success was soft power but also in diplomacy and in the extension of humanitarian aid which has all been abruptly ended uh to countries. So yes, absolutely. If you look to the future uh to a system that is already taking on more of regional um structures, uh the United States is the one that's pushing itself into isolation. Dr. Let's bust right into it. Since we had you on back in March, we've seen summits, meetings, and a total of, wait for it, zero deals, agreements made. Putin seems dug in for total victory. Catch us up. What do you think is the state of play right now? >> Well, I think you summed it up uh sadly, Scott, very clearly. Um Putin is dug in from his perspective right now. Things um are going in the direction that he anticipated. He didn't think that I that President Trump would really do anything. He's already sized him up long time ago. He knows that Trump's desire to have a good relationship with Putin personally tends to be uh paramount and uh that Trump doesn't really want to do any heavy lifting that could create blow blowback for himself or for uh the United States in terms of confronting Russia would rather like to do things directly and in fact now we see uh President Trump putting pressure on his European allies to go first in terms of taking action against Russia. And of course, what Putin is also hoping is that those European allies, the UK included, will all fall apart. And we've seen in the last uh week, all kinds of drone incursions, an uptick in uh aircraft from Russia violating for quite lengthy periods of time adjacent airspace in the Baltic States and uh in the countries um adjacent to Russia. And Putin is just applying the pressure. He really feels that this is his time to finish Ukraine off. >> My sense is the war is not going well for him. And is it when you say finish the war off, is this like the battle of the bulge where it's like, okay, this is our our shot. This is our shot to kind of try and end the war and we're going to throw everything we had it because if I go on TikTok, I can't figure out, all right, are the Russians with a wartime economy and uh what I would call their core competence and ability to endure incredible suffering and sacrifice? And I say that I generally think it's a core confidence. Wartime economy, willingness to lose, keep going. Or I hear that 17% of the oil infrastructure has been taken out and they keep it's a meat grinder. Give us your sense of the balance of power here and where we are in the war. >> Look, all of these things can be true and you know, you say it's a core competence, but when it comes to the Russian people, they're not actually given much of a choice in the matter. I mean, most states uh are supposed to be functioning for the benefits of their populations. It's been quite a while since Putin moved away from putting the population and their prosperity and well-being first. There was actually a period to be really fair here in uh the 2000s where Russians were living their best lives, where the Russian state was not putting all kinds of ownorous burdens on them as it had traditionally. But, you know, he's right back at that again. I mean although there's not full-on mobilization uh and there are a lot of inducements of people to go to the front in terms of getting you know really high payments uh for the u sacrifice literal sacrifice on the the front lines uh Putin is still pretty confident that he can keep that meat grinder going and that frankly he can fight till the last Ukrainian because he's got more Russian manpower uh to uh be able to push forward. Look, you've you've seen President Trump and heard President Trump just recently a pining on this talking about the number of people that uh Putin is sacrificing uh and uh is seeing dying every single day and how much higher that is in terms of a a factor, you know, 4:1 of Russians against uh Ukrainians, for example, which is not to say that uh Ukraine is having an easy time at all. I mean, in fact, that's what Putin is banking on. He's banking on Ukraine collapsing first. He wants to finish Ukraine off first. So right now Ukraine is in a rather precarious uh situation economically and Russia is too. I mean you're absolutely right about this. This is a wartime economy. It's a kind of a variation of the wartime Russian uh disease like the Dutch disease when everything went into their oil economy. In this case in Russia everything is going into the war economy and it's affecting other sectors of the economy. But Ukraine is literally running out of money. It's dependent on the IMF. It's dependent on the support of other allies and partners. It's been very much dependent on the support of the United States. Uh not just uh for military support, but also financial support to keep things going. We've got this big debate about using Russian assets, frozen Russian assets to help support Ukraine's defense, and that's now in um something of a more acute form because Ukraine's economy literally is running out of uh is running out of steam. And that's what Putin is depending on. He knows that he's got problems at home. And in fact, you're starting to see even some defections. We recently heard that Dimmitri Kak uh who is one of the people who's been most close to Putin going back to the 70s and 1980s, somebody who was actually born in Ukraine when it was part of the Soviet Union, Soviet Republic, and one of the people who was opposed to the war and has kept telling uh Putin the truth about it. Well, he's just resigned from the government after a long period. And you know that itself is quite consequential and telling of where we are now. But Putin's gambling and betting and you know it's a fairly good bet for him that Ukraine is going to be the first uh country that collapses. >> So you're I mean you're handicapping that this at the end of the day that Russia has the advantage right now. Is that accurate? >> Well, I actually don't think it has to have the advantage. Look, this is a game of chicken, right? I mean, it's uh and one could say it's a game of chicken Kiev because Putin's basically uh banking on the fact that it's Ukraine are going to blink or just literally collapse or they're going to turn back or everybody else is going to turn back. But the point of saying all of this is to say that we don't have to do this. Uh there are, as I said, serious deliberations right now about doing something with the Russian frozen assets, finding a formula that enables them to be put uh to use of helping Ukraine defend itself. I think Europeans are are getting more serious about taking action that's required in terms of building their own defense, but helping to make sure that Ukraine can defend those lines and not let Russia go any further forward. So, this is the critical juncture in which a signal has to be sent to Putin saying, "No, we're not going to let you do this. We're going to actually make sure that Ukraine can keep on defending itself and pushing you back. And we're not going to actually put up with these incursions of drones or aircraft or all the other things that you're going to throw at us here. There is actually some solidarity in Europe. It may not be all European countries and you know, we can see Hungary and Slovakia and a host of other countries clearly making it obvious that they're not going to do what it takes. And that's what gives Putin the confidence that he can push forward. But if the other major European players, the UK, France, Germany, all the Scandinavian countries, Poland, the Baltic states, you know, etc., push back, that's going to be a different matter. And we'll have to see now whether these drone attacks, we've had, you know, all kinds of evidence now that Putin's doing this to test everyone's resolve. If they respond with resolve, then we might see something different. You've just got to show Putin that he can't go any further. But, you know, again, this is the moment. This is the testing time >> from an American vantage point, sort of man on the street if you will. Uh I'm disappointed that the Americans aren't offering a more fullthroated uh defense or support of Ukraine, but I'm sort of flumxed as to why Europe, who at the end of the day is the is the region being invaded here, and I recognize they've given more money than than the US, but it just seems, for lack of a better term, the EU is just very soft and that Putin Putin recognized is that uh that the money obviously they would need more money nor they need more money more weapons. The idea of ever putting a Spanish or French foot on you know boot on the ground is just unthinkable despite the fact that Europe is being invaded. Do you think Europe is mustering the requisite will assuming that the US will be sort of a I'm going to call it a passive partner but will continue to support but not at the but will not take the leadership position I think most people have come to expect on these types of issues. Do you think that the EU demonstrates the will to provide the requisite push back? >> Well, look, I think part of the problem that we have is we've got all of these different entities in Europe. You're talking about the EU, the European Union. Well, that's not a military organization. It has military and security components of course and it also has a lot of financial clout. And if you think in aggregate of, you know, 550 million Europeans and you think about uh the financial firepower that they have if they uh pull all their resources, there's something pretty significant there. And then of course the other organization, the critical one is NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. And as you said, the US is pretty passive about, you know, this at the moment. We've we've had the various summits in which it's been made crystal clear by the US Secretary of Defense and many others that um the United States is not just going to be offering protection uh for Europeans unless they're going first as Trump has also been saying and they're doing everything for themselves. And of course, Canada's part of that, but you know, Canada's been seen as feckless by the United States, you know, etc. But there are other forms of organization for military and defense beneath all of that in within Europe. And I think that's where the secret lies. You know, we're always talking about coalitions of the willing, you know, in different contexts. And there are other structures. So, you've actually seen a number of the European countries sign bilateral relationship uh bilateral agreements with Ukraine solidifying those relationships into something that's more just uh than just political, but something that is also uh geared up towards helping Ukraine defend itself. I was part of the UK strategic defense review that went on, you know, for a whole year up until June. And it was very clear that the UK was seriously committed to trying to help Ukraine and was one of the first movers in terms of signing one of these defense agreements. But the UK also has a leadership role in another entity, the um uh called the Jeff um the joint expeditionary force, which you know for a long time was neither joint nor expeditionary or even a force. You know, it was just some guy's name by the sound of it. But there's actually been some effort to really put some teeth into that. That is an organization, a military organization that was set up really to bring Sweden and Finland into closer coordination militarily with some of the other NATO countries before they joined NATO. And again, it was the UK, it was Norway, the Baltic states. So that's something become something real now that Ukraine um is um a partner with all of these individual countries and now that Sweden and Finland have also join NATO because the hope is that the Jeff could become a military organizational platform for doing um something more serious because all of those countries are both committed and capable as well as now interoperable about working together and working with Ukraine. And when you mentioned boots on the ground, there are Ukrainian boots on the ground. When we look beyond all of this, uh, if Ukraine has managed to prevail, let's just say, and if it hasn't had a victory in the way that people were envisioning it might early on, but has managed to prevail, persist, and resist Russia taking over the rest of its uh, territory, Ukraine and Ukrainian uh, army is going to be probably the most significant in Europe, which is why Russia wants to have Ukraine demilitarized and have it uh, basically neutralized because it sees a writing on the wall. Ukraine's going to be a formidable force. Ukrainian boots are on the ground. Ukrainian boots are going to continue to be on the ground, but what Ukraine needs is more of this technical assistance. It certainly needs more defensive capability. And I think all of Europe now is seeing that they need some kind of integrated air and uh missile defense system too, particularly one in the first instance, defense against drones. Those drones that uh recently went into Poland seem to be more dummies, you know, set up to test and to see how Europe was going to respond. You can't respond by sending up, you know, multi-million dollar aircraft, you know, to deal with offthe-shelf drones that are partly styrofoam and duct tape. So, we're going to have to be really thinking creatively here. And the Ukrainians have also shown the way. So what you're seeing now is a group of European countries either through these bilateral agreements or through larger organizational arrangements figuring out how they're going to work with Ukraine as well uh to u start uh taking different technical approaches and boosting their uh industries doing more innovation in drones thinking about how to counteract drones and really working with Ukraine to build up its defense sector as well as their own. So I think we're going to see more of this. I think you know the question is really the pace and that's you know one of the things that you're getting at here and then you also see that the US has learned some lessons but it's at least the US defense sector and Pentagon has and you're seeing a lot of US defense majors wanting to get in on the act there's a bit of a fear of missing out aspect because the more that the US is pushing uh Europe to do its own thing and the more it's evident the Europeans have money and they're now starting to get some will but they've just got to have the ways and means for this the more there's also a kind of concern concern in the United States and the defense sector that they might not be able to participate in this because you know there's a lot of potential there but I think Europeans are going to have to look more at this you know smaller um scale innovation cheaper responses to things and they are going to have to look at the high-end you know exquisite lethal equipment that usually takes you know decades to produce and to um to conceive of. So both Poland and Estonia invoked Article 4, which by the way has only been used eight times since 1949 uh after Russian jet fighters and drones were intercepted deep into the respective airspaces. Can you just as someone who likes to think they're a critical thinker and understand strategy, I would have thought the last thing he'd want to do is provoke additional resources and spending. I put us into the mind to the best of your ability of Putin and why he made the decision to encroach on Estonian and Polish airspace with attack aircraft. Like what is he quite frankly what is he thinking? Well, Putn has looked for vulnerabilities, right? And Poland and Estonia are pretty vulnerable. Poland's just uh starting to build up its defense capacity for itself. I mean Poland is actually very close to this 5% the magical 5% of uh of GDP but it's got you know low base to move from and the polls are also still pretty desperate and hopeful for uh of stronger bilateral agreement between Poland and the United States. They still see the United States as underpinning their security which is why the uh Polish presidential you know candidate was recently in the Oval Office you know for example and Estonia of course is a very small country with some disputed territory uh with Russia right there on the border with one of the Russia's largest um military uh districts and it's always been seen as the point where the Russians would likely make some kind of uh land incursion certainly into uh the Baltic states And um Putin is just putting up the pressure and trying to see how everyone is going to react. I think what he anticipated was that everybody would falling out against each other and try to appease him, which has been, you know, some of the past uh patterns. But there's another aspect to all of this is that I'm not really sure about the quality of information intelligence Putin gets himself. As an intelligence operative, he's somebody who likes to think that he knows everything, but look, he's now existing in a bubble. There's all kinds of evidence that he's not always in the Kremlin. In fact, that he's often in other places. He's got all these cloned uh offices that are in his daches either outside of Moscow down on the Black Sea. Uh for example, and I mentioned before that people like Dimmitri Kak, people would say, "Hey, you know, look, Vladimir Vladimir, I don't think this is a good idea." You know, people like that have either left or they've been sidelined. So, he's not getting people pushing back. He's surrounded by yesmen or very frightened men, you know, for the most part. and a smaller and smaller group around him who can provide material to him and information. In fact, he's mostly surrounded by his bodyguards all the time. And you know, it's not very clear that they're all up on the latest information. So, you've got to ask yourself, what is it that Vladimir Putin's being told? And what does he think? And what does he decide for himself? Is he operate operating on old assumptions based on how he thinks that Poland or Estonia or Finland or the UK or anybody else for that matter is going to react? And if you think about what he did in February 2022, he made a huge mistake. He thought that he literally was going to do a special military operation in Ukraine. He was going to move in. They were going to capitulate. He was going to run off or get killed. The government would be overthrown and he would put in his own puppet government, some stooges there in Kiev and then, you know, all of that would be over with. And we in the West wouldn't react. Well, basically people are reacting. uh perhaps in some ways in the way they might expect. We've been following all these old cold war procedures for interceptions of planes etc. But we're also learning lessons and if Putin thinks he can learn a lesson well so can everyone else as well. And now we know there are lots of debates you know elsewhere in Europe. Now Putin still thinks that he's got his tentacles or his hands into all kinds of European politics and he can pit people against each other. The Poles and the Germans and a tourist were always infighting. nobody, you know, kind of he thinks will really want to help and uh protect Estonia. Um and he's just, you know, fairly confident now that all these rifts uh within Europe politically, internally in their domestic politics or between Europe and the United States will prevent any kind of unified response. But um let's see. I mean, I I think that there are again a constellation of European countries, even if it's not all of them, who are now actually getting their act together, and they will find ways of pushing back against Putin. [Music] Support for the show comes from Betterment. We all have goals in life. Maybe you want to start a business. Maybe you want to start a family. Or maybe you want to throw a couple of pairs of socks in a frame pack and travel around the world. Whatever your hopes and dreams are, Betterman can help you save and invest to get there. Better helps people and small businesses put their money to work. They automate to make saving simpler, optimize to make investing smarter, and build innovative technology backed by financial experts. Whether you're saving for retirement, a down payment on a house, or your kids' education, Betterman's goals-based outlook helps you ground your financial decisions in your actual life. Their globally diversified portfolios help give you a solid financial foundation in turbulent times, and their tax smart features can help you save money. So, if you want to stop worrying about how you're going to get there and start thinking about where you want to go, Betterment might be a good option. Don't just imagine a better future, start investing in one with Betterment. Be invested in yourself. Be invested in your business. Be invested with Betterment. Go to betterment.com to learn more. Investing involves risk. Performance not guaranteed. [Music] Support for the show comes from LinkedIn. We say this all the time on our show, but it bears repeating. Running a small business isn't just a full-time job. It's about a dozen full-time jobs that you rarely, if ever, get to clock out of, at least until you get to the point where you can start hiring the dream team. And if you've made it that far, you already know there's no time to mess around. That's where LinkedIn Jobs comes in. LinkedIn makes it easy to post your job for free, share with your network, and get qualified candidates that you can manage all in one place. And LinkedIn's new AI feature can even help you write job descriptions and then quickly get it in front of the right people with deep candidate insights. And if you decide you want to go the extra mile to find the perfect candidate, LinkedIn says that promoted jobs get three times the number of qualified applicants. It's all these little things that let you find help fast without compromising on quality, which add up to you finally having extra time in the day for, I don't know, relaxing. Or, knowing my listeners, you'll probably use that extra time to expand your empire even further. Post your job for free at linkedin.com/prop. That's linkedin.com/prop to post your job for free. Terms and conditions apply. [Music] We're back with more from Dr. Fiona Hill. So, I'll put forward a thesis and you respond to it. There's just enough support from the EU and the US to ensure that Ukraine or decrease the likelihood that Ukraine collapses. Um, Russia is paying a huge cost. They're comfortable paying a huge cost. They have a lot on the line. It feels as if if Russia were to collapse or have a, you know, just a very obvious defeat that there's a decent chance that Putin might find a window. It just feels like it all adds up to the following, Dr. Hill, that we've got more war for the foreseeable future. Thoughts? >> Yeah, look, I think that's uh sadly uh the best assessment. you know, barring some major changes. If we look back at other similar wars of attrition or the meat grinders, there was always, you know, something either external that happened, some external shock, or in the case of one of the protagonists, an internal shock. If you look back to World War I, of course, it was the the German monarchy that collapsed, the German state, the first German state. Um, in the second it was the defeat of of Germany in the battlefield after being pulled out uh over extended lines for too long and you know basically not fighting on their home turf. And of course Russia is not fighting on its home turf either even if it tends to present it as being home turf and and the sense that Ukraine is historically part of Russia as Putin's always telling us. Uh the other um you know case as well is of some change in the international system. Now, you know, if we look back a few months ago when Trump came into power, Putin thought that was great because Trump was going to shift the whole thing. In fact, we were all worried about that as well that Trump was going to shift the whole course of a conflict in Putin's favor. And frankly, he has in many respects, but now, you know, there's a shift again. So, um I think absent some major change, some major shock to the system, either externally or internally, uh we're going to go on with this for some time. But there could be of course a recalculation inside of Russia if uh all the kind of difficulties mount. If you're getting um you know fewer people are willing to sacrifice themselves on the front if the there's a shock to the economy you know for example um that constrains um Putin's abilities to keep moving forward. I mean we can't see much sign of that just yet but over the next you know year or so. It may also be that if he does get enough uh grip of the battlefield, which Cle is what we're looking at right now, that he's trying to take over the whole of the Donbass region, that he might be prepared to settle in some temporary fashion uh for the the lines frozen as they are. He's always hinting that there might be some deal to be made over Zaparia and Heron, which are these two other provinces uh in the south of uh Ukraine that Russia partially controls. He's laid claim to, and you know, annexed them as well at least. um in terms of a de facto sense of declaring them part of Russia, but the Ukraine is um still in control of large portions of Zapia and Hisan and Putin may then, you know, actually say, "Okay, um I'm willing now to stop the fighting and then he might just try to use political and economic pressure on Ukraine instead to find other means of of moving forward." But I don't think it's really shaken in any way his ultimate objectives, which is to get as much of Ukraine and as much control over Ukraine as he possibly can. But I think he can make a lot of mischief politically in Ukraine as well. Uh in large part because neither Putin nor Trump are particularly big fans of Vadimir Zilinski and the US itself has also been talking about the need for Ukraine to have a new leader and certainly have another election um if we get to the point of a ceasefire and peace negotiation. So there's all kinds of other ways in which absent uh the increase or the persistence of the conflict on the front lines of the battlefield that Putin can try to get a grip on everything and he can continue to keep pressing lots of buttons inside of European politics and the US as well. I mean you've seen all kinds of things that the uh Russians have done lately to try to whip up, you know, sentiment and acrimony and um you know basically uh division within the United States and Europe. You're a former US National Security Council official and just as an observer between and I use this word loosely the summit in Alaska where I felt we were just embarrassed and between Donald Trump I would argue thrusting now what is going to be the largest consumer economy in the world India into Russia's hands I I thought the most chilling photo of 2025 was the picture of Modi she and Putin. It strikes me that what we have done has done nothing but embolden and build the confidence of Putin. Your thoughts? >> Yeah, I think that's exactly the point. Uh which is why we need to, you know, do something different. If you're in a hole and you keep on digging, that's, you know, we're just going to end up right at the bottom of, you know, of where you've laid out here. And Modi was doing his own signaling very clearly. This was at the Shanghai Cooperation Organization uh meeting that happened to be in China ahead of President Xi uh presiding over a huge military parade in uh Beijing to mark uh the end of World War II in Asia and and essentially, you know, to kind of pretend that it was China uh and the Soviet Union and Russia uh that brought an end to that war uh when we actually know, of course, that the United States played a major role in ending World War II in Asia as well, but was, you know, very point uh pointedly excluded and Modi was basically capitalizing on that ability to signal back to the United States that he didn't take kindly to these imposition of tariffs and you know that gets back to what I was said about Trump not wanting to do anything directly to counter Russia but wanting to do things indirectly and he saw uh India as a weak link and thought he had a lot of leverage over India because of India's desires to have access uh to the uh massive UK uh US markets I said UK there by a slip of the tongue But actually that leads to really my next point that I want to make is that India and other countries are do have vested interests in other places not just in the United States. It's of course true that the United States is the world's biggest uh consumer market in the sense of the market that everybody wants to gain access to and I mean China of course is right there too but you know traditionally people have wanted to get into the US market to push forward in innovation and you know they they see this as a kind of a testing ground you know for their own prosperity. There's so many reasons to be in the United States. But those reasons also hold for Europe. China, India, Japan, South Korea, you know, Russia less so now because of everything that's been uh happening, have vested interest in the success of Europe. As one of my colleagues um here at Brockings is writing a book about the future of the world economy and is basically pointing out that China cannot pick up the slack. If the United States takes itself off the scene, China is not going to keep the whole world economy going. But you know Europe is uh obviously um a significant place for investment as well as a significant source of foreign direct investment itself. India has these strong historic difficult ties obviously uh with the United Kingdom. But there's a great deal um of uh interest in Europe's success. So this is an opportunity again for Europe uh to actually do something uh differently there and to engage with India, Japan, South Korea, many other countries and also China to basically say look um if this is the direction of travel here uh you know we need to do something different but you in the case of China uh and other countries are supporting Russia in a war that is ruining uh the uh future prospects for Europe and if you want to be part of our success as well including on all of the different things this would go for India rather than China that we're doing in the militaryindustrial space then you need to do something about bringing that war to an end and stop messing about in it because you know we're not just a playground here uh in between the United States and and and all of you. I mean that might be difficult but you know it's uh it's one other thing where I see that there could be a way of putting this in a in a different in a different direction but you know when we constantly see things as a competition between the US on the one side and you know everybody else on the other we then often fail to see where there are other opportunities. I had read that Ukraine had damaged 17% of Russia's oil infrastructure and obviously that has different interpretations by what is meant by infrastructure. Isn't that potentially the key or the solution here that if the Americans and the Europeans were to get serious and give the Ukrainians what they need to take that number from 17 to 18 to 19 just a slow march towards debilitating or kind of defenistrating the oil infrastructure at which point the economy does collapse. I mean, this is I think it's 50% of their GDP is is related to to fossil fuels. And I realize you're in geopolitics, but you also it's impossible to do what you do without being cognizant of military strategy. Isn't that arguably the key here? Well, look, the key certainly is reducing all of uh the revenue to the Russian state and as you've point out, oil and gas is pretty critical there in terms of its exports and also the the revenues directly uh to state coffers. Uh there's already been a reduction in the amount of gas that um Russia is um selling uh to Europe. But um oil um remains uh the key because in fact oil is the biggest source of revenues over gas for the for the Russian state directly and oil uh basically reaches the market from Russia in various different means either directly and look there were still pipelines for oil when the the pipeline that was blown up in the the North Sea uh Nstream um uh pipeline that was for gas Russian oil pipelines including the famous pipeline friendship ship, you know, still go from Russia directly into Eastern Europe, into East Germany, for example, and into Hungary and, you know, other places. And we've heard the Hungarians say they have no desire whatsoever to stop buying uh, you know, Russian oil and, you know, gas if they can have it as well. But we're also getting um, uh, countries like India, that's why uh, Trump basically imposed those tariffs on India because I mean it's recognizing that there are many different ways in which Russian oil uh, meets the market. It's not just the the shadow fleet, you know, bringing Russian oil, but it's also other countries buying and refining uh uh the Russian oil and uh creating, you know, refined product. And that's another area, you know, that we really do have to tackle. And look, European countries like France and many others, you know, continue to buy uh Russian oil one way or another. I mean you can't put some kind of little stamp on the you know hydrocarbon molecules but we we can see you know exactly you know how integrated Russian oil still is into global markets but of course that's going to have knock effect you know at a time when you know we are worried about you know the long-term economic health of uh you know the UK European countries Germany and also the United States now it's easy enough for the United States to say some of uh these uh things as well because the United States remains a major producer uh of oil and gas, but some of the other actions would have to require the Saudis being on board, you know, the whole OPEC um uh countries uh to uh agree to all of this as well. So, you'd have to engage in some complex diplomacy and it's not particularly clear to me right now. So it gets back to some of the problems that we keep identifying here uh that uh the major countries that are oil purchasers you know want to engage in those kinds of negotiations and discussions or if United States wants to do that directly with Saudi Arabia or other major oil producers or you know the consortiums to try to keep all prices down while they put the squeeze on uh on Russia. And the Russians, you know, see this coming. And of course, they're heavily involved in their own Middle East diplomacy in dealing with the Emirates and the Saudis themselves. [Music] Support for the show comes from Gruns. An apple a day keeps the doctor away, yada yada yada. The truth is that even if you enjoy fruits and vegetables, it can still be tedious to get all the nutrients your body needs. So, here's a tip. Add Gruns to the mix. Grunt isn't a multivitamin, a greens gummy, or a prebiotic. It's all of those things and then some at a fraction of the price. And bonus, it tastes great. All Grun's daily gummy snack packs are vegan, nut, gluten, dairyf free with no artificial flavors or colors, and they're packed with more than 20 vitamins and minerals with more than 60 nutrient-dense ingredients and whole foods. And for a limited time, you can try the Gruni Smith apple flavor just in time for fall. It's got the same snackable, packable, full body benefits you've come to expect, but this time these taste like you're walking through an apple orchard in a cable knit sweater, warm apple cider in hand. Grab your limited edition Grunie Smith apple Gruns. Available only through October. Stack up because they will sell out. Get up to 52% off when you go to gruns.co. That's gruns.co CO and use the code prop G. Support for PropG comes from Pipe Drive. One of the major things entrepreneurs struggle with when starting a business is the sales process. It's easy to get disorganized, jumping between back and forth emails, scattered notes, and forgotten follow-ups, spending more time chasing paperwork than actually closing. That's where Pipe Drive comes in. A top-rated CRM tool for small to medium businesses. Their visual sales pipeline lets you see where every deal is, what stage it's in, and what needs to happen next. And it's all in one dashboard. You can automate follow-ups and set reminders for meetings, so no contact gets forgotten, and leads don't slip through the cracks. Plus, Pipe Drive AI analyzes your sales process, helps you summarize long email chains, and finds qualified leads for your business. It's a powerful, simple CRM built by salespeople for salespeople. Join the over 100,000 companies already using Piperive right now. When you visit piperive.com/propg, you'll get a 30-day free trial. No credit card or payment needed. Just head to piperive.com/propg to get started. That's piperive.com/propg and you can be up and running in minutes. [Music] Support for PropG comes from Vanta. Starting a company is incredibly gratifying, but can also be one of the hardest things you'll ever do. And one of the most challenging parts of it is making sure that you're meeting all the security compliance standards you need to meet. Vanta makes the whole process easier. Vanta is a trust management platform that helps businesses automate security and compliance, enabling them to demonstrate strong security practices and scale. That means that a whole bunch of tasks that used to be expensive, time-conuming, and complex can now be automated and streamlined. Simply put, your company can't grow if it can't prove that it's meeting security standards, including SOCK 2, ISO 2701, and HIPPA. Vant can get you audit ready in weeks instead of months, saving you up to 85% of associated costs. And Vant scales with your business, helping you continuously monitor compliance, unify risk management, and streamline security reviews, all in one place. Starting a business is hard. Let Vanta make the process a little bit easier. Go to vanta.com/propg to meet with a Vanta expert about your business needs. That's vanta.com/propg. [Music] We're back with more from Dr. Fiona Hill. So, speaking of diplomacy, Churchill said that the only thing worse fighting than fighting with your allies is fighting without them. >> Yep. It feels as if in one fell swoop or just in five or six months. I think of it just as a soccer mom in Madison, Wisconsin could likely swing the election. You know, the swing voter, right? The small >> the small number of people that matter somewhere that can tip things have disproportionate power. It struck me that the new swing votes globally are um the kingdom of Saudi Arabia and India big economies militaries sort of straddling the fence they purposely position themelves as the swing votes and to strategically you really want to be nice to the swing voters and it strikes me that in short order we have taken India who as an academic I just am so upset that we have trashed this amazing connective tissue we've had between I know you know you're you run a university or you're the I believe you're the chancellor is that corre I have the term right >> that's right of Dar University in the UK yeah >> I mean it's just impossible to go through any worldass university and not find just incredibly talented people from India and we had this great connective tissue with India English speakers, more PhDs than anywhere else in the world, a democracy. And then the kingdom, we've had military bases, really strong relationships, and it seems as if we have purposely thrust India into Russia's arms and somewhat alienated or put a chill on relationships with the kingdom. I just can't imag blunt I just can't imagine anything more stupid geopolitically to alienate the the forces that have a disproportionate amount of power because of their economic strength where they where they sit regionally and the fact that they were quite frankly kind of up for grabs if you will. Y >> and I don't mean to put words in your mouth. So your thoughts on that on on those statements? Well, look, I think that's exactly um the right way to be framing all of this because we're in a period of incredible flux. The international system has collapsed. Let's just, you know, admit it. Even though we've got the UN General Assembly, you know, still going on and there are a lot of countries out there that actually still see some value still in the UN system as a way of, you know, being able to mediate, modulate, and you know, actually agree on, you know, some collective uh things. because the United States has uh you know basically declared the system that it built itself uh dead and is just basically like everybody else jostling for power in the kind of freefor all that has replaced it and in that instance you know as you're you know pointing out here if the United States is just one of many countries the more you alienate the more difficult you make things for yourself and those swing countries you've absolutely accurately point out to India and the um Saudi Arabia being pretty key there And I would say all the Gulf, you know, states, the Emirates, uh, collectively, uh, pretty important. You've also got Brazil, which, uh, President Trump, you know, has taken to task, uh, for, uh, basically prosecuting former President Bolsinaro, who was a personal supporter of Trump's, you know, for basically staging a coup in Brazil. He's alienated the Brazilians pretty effectively there too was a large power in the western hemisphere and the Brazilians are not very happy at all uh by the state of affairs and they have international clout too. South Africa, another, you know, major uh player regionally. And uh Trump has absolutely not ruined that relationship, you know, as well for a whole variety of different reasons. And, you know, we could go on like this with the um basically treating everybody with a very heavy hand and forgetting that one of the biggest reasons for US success was soft power. And soft power manifested itself in many different ways, but also in diplomacy and in the extension of humanitarian aid, which has all been abruptly ended. uh to countries around the world. So yes, absolutely. If you look to the future uh to a system that is already taking on more of regional um structures, uh the United States is the one that's pushing itself into isolation because you've ruptured the relationships with Europe. Uh there's a new report come out from the European Council on Foreign Relations um seeing that the United States is doing more to ex export culture wars to Europe right now and interfering in European domestic politics than it is to being a defender of you know the uh traditional uh fundamental um bases of European democracies and uh also of their economies let alone what we've all just talked about the United States moving away from uh being engaged in collective defense in Europe. So in that regard, I mean, the future looks pretty grim from a US perspective. I think people are going to uh slowly realize over time that they've uh done an awful lot to undermine the bases of uh the United States power uh large globally. And the United States may well be heading towards um uh being a middle power of its own um of of its own uh devising uh because Russia has already declined in a major way in terms of its power uh from the the superpower status of the Soviet Union. Russia's never really replaced that and we've talked about all the problems that Russia is facing. I would say that this war in Ukraine is going to be even if it's a victory for Russia very feric feric victory you know very similar to what happened to the United Kingdom uh Great Britain after World War I and World War II supposedly the pinnacle of achievement and actually the deathnel not just for the British Empire but for you know Britain is a really robust uh policy and economy and I think that's where the United States is heading itself. It really struck me what you just said uh that America's biggest export or major export has become culture wars. I just thought that's such an interesting way to summarize that okay we we should be selling Nvidia GPU hopper chips and escalades and to a certain extent I think of my industry as being a tremendous export. you know, we get foreigners to come over and spend half a million dollars at 90 points of margin such that they can hang out in Soho, at NYU or at Stanford and then now all we're doing is exporting kind of havoc and chaos and making making things harder for the leaders. If it feels as if one of the frustrations of being a progressive here in the United States is I feel like there's this enormous vacuum and opportunity and white space for leadership and a lot of Democrats are really frustrated that no one appears to be stepping into the void. I'm sure you're cognizant of, you know, Governor Nuomo got a lot of credit for sort of hitting back, even if sort of a funny mocking way, but there doesn't appear to be a lot of like leadership pushing back on quote unquote Trump. Do you see anyone stepping into the void in Europe to show the kind of leadership they need to push back on Putin? I have trouble identifying. It just strikes me as an enormous opportunity for somebody to step up and be seen as the leader of Europe right now, at least from a rhetorical standpoint, pushing back on Putin. >> Yeah, look, I think it's the same problem in both places. Um, I I do think that leadership can come from unexpected quarters in the United States as well, more from the periphery than it's necessarily going to come from the center. And that doesn't mean California and the governors, you know, for example. Um it can be I mean Spencer Cox, you know, just recently has been, I think, modeling great leadership in the wake of, you know, a massive uh national tragedy and upheaval in uh the United States. And we've seen other, you know, kind of uh moral leaders uh coming forward, governors of, you know, states that people don't mostly um think about. Utah's, you know, part of that as well. uh you're seeing all more people um in the United States wanting to run as independent for office and coming from unexpected uh quarters as well. And I think that's when you look at Europe is maybe where we're headed as well. It's going to be the leaders of countries that we've thought of as more peripheral than you know the big three of the United Kingdom, Germany, and France. Although you've got a new U president in Germany, Friedrich Mets, who's you know trying to find his uh position, he's not really being seen right now as a kind of a major force in Germany in the way that maybe Chancellor Merkel was before, although her you know reputation and legacy have become somewhat tarnished as well as people have looked back or in the way of previous German leaders really tended to uh to dominate. And in the UK as well, of course, um, Prime Minister Starmer is under all kinds of political difficulties and still trying to find his feet on and, uh, President Mron, you know, his snap election didn't really help. He's he's just going through prime ministers in the same way that the UK went through prime ministers, you know, in, uh, the previous conservative government. And it's really, I I think going to be up to a constellation of leaders from some of the countries like Norway, Sweden, Finland, you know, for example. Well, it was very interesting when you looked at who came to see Trump in the Oval Office immediately after Alaska. I think you got a kind of a sense there that you might have a Europe by a kind of a leadership committee. I mean, yes, Mertz and Macron and uh Stalmer were there, but you also had Ursula Vanderelain uh from the European Commission. We had Mark Rutter from Norway uh from NATO, a former uh president of um um of of prime minister rather of the Netherlands, but now in his NATO um uh secretary general and previously you'd had the Norwegian um uh secretary general uh for NATO who is in the Norwegian government, but you also had um there Alexander Stub from Finland and you know there's an interesting choice as a new member uh of NATO but Alexander Schub is extraordinary competent again um all kinds of previous positions in the Finnish government before becoming president but he actually um is deeply steeped in the United States. He studied in South Carolina who's an amazing golf player and he's managed to make a connection uh with uh Trump. Biosa Giorgio Milani from um Italy who um has been an unexpected success story in um her ability to manage the relationship with um Trump and has been surprisingly given her background outspoken and supportive of uh doing more for Ukraine. So if you start to kind of look at this, I think you can see that there could be a constellation, a group of European leaders who could work together, but it's not going to be the big three making those decisions. It's not going to be like, you know, when Kiss and Juice asked a question, who do you call in Europe? Or people used to think, well, you'd call Chancellor Merkel or you might have called, you know, way back in the Cold War, you'd probably have called Margaret Thatcher. It's not going to be like that, you know, anymore. I think it's going to be groupings of of European leaders really working together and they clearly coordinated and worked together, you know, very carefully before, you know, they went out to the Oval Office. So, I think you're going to see more of a kind of a tag team development in Europe, but they're really going to have to take it up a notch. And frankly, if we go back to the United States, that might be the kind of thing you see here, groupings of governors, you know, you're already seeing on vaccine mandates, for example, I live in Maryland, I work in Washington DC, and I've um, you know, just paid attention to that the whole of the sort of the northeast of the United States has got together to, you know, present alternatives uh for vaccine mandates. Same's happening out in California, in the West Coast. And you start on those kinds of issues that, you know, obviously have a great deal of importance for public health and you move on from there. we may see this, you know, uh, taking root on all kinds of other issues. Just as I said, there might be more of these coalitions in Europe starting to do the same thing outside of, uh, the military arena, but also in, uh, diplomacy. >> It's encouraging that you believe there's greater coordination across the EU cuz from an outsider standpoint, I just see it as sclerotic and everyone has veto power, but no one actually has the power to get anything done. It's just a lot. It feels like and it's encouraging for you to say no, they're more I'm misreading that they're more coordinated. >> Well, well, I think once you break out of, you know, the confines of the European Union itself and of NATO where, you know, again, also the US has a major veto over things, you start to see countries using other arrangements. It's kind of creative, right? Because you've got all these agreements I mentioned before between countries in Ukraine, but you've also got agreements among themselves. The UK and Germany and Germany and France and the UK and France have all had major bilateral agreements recently that go beyond uh just military affairs. The UK and Norway have as well. Those two countries are totally entwined together. 70% of UK gas comes from just Norway and a lot of the wind uh uh power generation in the UK comes from Norway as well. Um you know it's sort of these ironies of history. You know, you think about the Viking invasions and you know, now the Norwegians bring wind and gas uh to uh the United Kingdom, but it means that they actually have to look out for each other. Uh and their critical national infrastructure is one and the same. >> So that's encouraging. And I think that, you know, the whole can be greater than the sum of its parts, but I can't think of a conflict like this where there weren't central figures who demonstrated just outstanding leadership. And right now I would argue the most I don't know consequential leaders well I mean you always have to list the US president but I would argue right now that's that's not the kind of leadership that's going to help us right now. I would argue that Putin Zalinski and she are the most respected and feared leaders and also the most consistent. I guess what I'm asking for from you is someone who straddles between a deep understanding of European politics and US politics and who's observed leaders who do you see anybody up and coming either across Europe or in the US where you think if someone had to if someone told me that in five or 10 years there was someone had emerged as a dramatic leader either as it relates to the war in Ukraine or running for president the next time. Um, do any night like who are you most impressed by? >> Well, you know what? It's often people who are right now outside of the elected leadership. You know, I'd mentioned that I'd actually been very deeply impressed by uh Governor Cox and the way that he handled, you know, the recent events in Utah, you know, but I mean, it's not usual for someone from Utah to rise to national prominence and, you know, could quite easily fizzle unless he gets, you know, kind of the backing of other governors and uh other elected officials who want to reach out across these parties and divides that um are really pulling us, you know, down and down in a spiral at the moment. But I do see that there's all kinds of um people now coming forward who want to run as independent candidates and you know kind of expressing uh their voices. You know we may find that the elected uh you know leadership of both the Republican uh what's left after the Republican party and the Democratic party we say what's left after two you know start to kind of get challenged by people coming from the outside. You get you know look there's an enormous influence from podcasts. Um you yourself have a very successful and influential podcast but we look at all the millions of people who are listening to these and listening to people speak there and who might get ideas you know from themselves hopefully good ones in terms of going out there and trying to do something more positive to help people of going out there and trying to make change in local communities out in regions and in states. I was recently out in Nebraska um for a family wedding and one person who's come to my attention who's running as an independent uh for a Senate race out Nebraska is um a guy called Dan Osborne who I um come into contact with a few years ago when he was leading um uh the the union at Kelloggs, you know, the serial plant uh out in uh Nebraska in a strike and he just had a lot of really sensible things to say. was just like an ordinary guy from the shop floor, former veteran, served in the the Navy, you know, who's come out with some just, you know, pretty sensible uh perspectives on things. And you see a whole host of people like this have decided, look, this system is not working for me. So maybe I'll just try, you know, to go out there and even if I don't um, you know, succeed in getting elected to public office, he's trying this twice now, at least I might get a movement going of people who want to change things. And maybe we start by changing things in our local uh areas and our communities and in our regions at the kind of state level, you know, and that kind of over time starts to force a change at the at the center. Look, the federal government's being dismantled. The states are pretty much on their own right now as well. And you know, I think the sinking realization is coming in for a lot of people. You know, that this isn't quite what they expected that they were voting for. They didn't think that all of the safety nets, the insurance policies were going to be removed. And it's the same in Europe. You know, Europeans absolutely made a huge fundamental error for decades of just relying on the United States and basically outsourcing their security. It was always a mistake and now they've realized it and they're going to have to do something different. And they might not be able to do it at the center with the institutions that they've got. They might have to do it by coming together in other formats and with unexpected groups of people. As I would as I said, you know, I think someone like um Alexander Stub uh in Finland um has been um you know, quite quite the leader. His predecessor, Salinista, was also renowned for his leadership. You have um a whole host of um other prime ministers and uh figures that come from the Nordic and the Baltic countries. uh Kaya Kalis for example who's the high representative for foreign policy in the European Union as a former president of Estonia who you know have great moral leadership and I think that's you know where we're really going to see change come the question is can it come soon enough quick enough given the dire nature of uh the situation that we face right now I'm not that confident but I I am somewhat optimistic that people are starting to rise occasion frankly because we've got no choice because we all go down together uh under these kinds of circumstances. >> So just in our remaining time here, you've been very generous with us. I want to switch tact a little bit or switch gears. Dr. Do you have children? >> I do. I have one daughter. >> So something we think a lot about here is the struggles of young men. And I did a actually secretary the secretary of homeland security secretary Morcus reached out to me and said I want to have a discussion. And we spent the whole time talking about the security risks posed by young men who are searching deeply online and could potentially be weaponized or radicalized by bad actors. And he was very thoughtful about what does that mean for our ports, our infrastructure, our military. I'm curious in the context of foreign policy and military policy. Have you given any thought to the plight? And this isn't something unique to the US. We see this across Europe that young men for a variety of reasons, biological, economic, sociological, biological, are just not doing as well as they once were and also relative to their female counterparts. Now, I always like to add we should celebrate and do nothing around the progress of our young women. But this is a real big issue I think in the US. Anyways, I'm going to stop there. Have you given any thought? Yeah, I look I think I think it's an issue globally and I have thought about it a lot. Um, you know, one of my colleagues um here at Brookings is Richard Reeves, you know, who set up the um the whole institute now for boys and men. >> Yeah, exactly. You know, and he's extremely good. I've spent a lot of time talking to him and of course my husband is a man. So, there's also that we spent a lot of time talking about this, you know, and we also, you know, worry that um you know, my my daughter um in 18 just gone out of college just didn't have the same, you know, set of male friends that I did. I mean many of my best friends growing up were men. I'm still on list serves with them all and you know that I um you know we talk about this all of the time and um you know wonder you know where is this going to go in the future and in the course of the strategic defense review uh for the UK. We looked at recruitment for the military. We worried about all of these issues and we worried a lot about um you know the educational opportunities for young men as well as um as young women and how um you know if we if we look back over the course of time those opportunities have shrunk the biggest divide and I think you and I discussed this the last time in our societies is um on education between the 60% of people who haven't had uh access to a two or four year college or even you know vocational training and the 40% that have and And of course, all of this is changing very rapidly as we get into a world where AI um is going to substitute for people and um including young men in many of those jobs that you know people have been uh diverted to in the past and you know I think we have to really start thinking about this across the board as how the whole of society tackles it. It's not going to be just one easy fix. is not just going to be through the educational system. That is certainly for sure. But it's going to be having to be although the K to2 um system does need to be changed and adapted uh to the needs of young men as I think Richard and uh Reeves and many others have uh pointed out. I have another colleague um Rebecca Winthrop here at Brookings um who's just uh done a fabulous new book on you know the disengaged teen looking how we really fail kids in middle school you know where they all check out and that's often when young men get into the you know very problems that you're talking about in middle school where they go off into video games and off onto the internet because they're just not engaged at all in school and she and others have you know really been featuring different ways in which you engage people. you've got to have more uh efforts uh out in society for more community uh engagement. You know, that that's what the tragedy of what's happening now in the United States as we're cutting back on all of these federal programs like Americaore volunteering all kinds of other um arenas where we were um really trying to help uh mentor um young men. So look, this is I think absolutely one of the most serious issues that uh that we need to tackle and it does have massive uh security uh implications. I mean look a lot of the hacking and the cyber um hacking that's been happening has been as much from teenage guys uh as it has been from adversaries uh like China, North Korea and um and Russia though they've obviously been uh tapping into that dissatisfaction and grievance. You know, we see that in uh the um acts of um mass gun violence and it's not just in the United States, but in other places where people have access to gun or stabbings or all kinds of uh violence, you know, the in the UK on the football um fields, soccer stadiums, you know, for example. So I think you're absolutely right in highlighting this and I think as societies we have to have more of a national conversation about what we can do but it doesn't mean that we cut away all of those resources and again I think that's where you get into the communities and the local governments. I'm actually just about to go um tomorrow up to um Portland, Maine, where there's an amazing set of um uh community efforts to bring young people in um often featuring um you know, a special outreach uh to um to boys uh through sports. And in one instance, there's a great organization called Portland Community Squash. So, the game of squash as opposed to the vegetable, which can cause a bit of confusion. It certainly did for me when I first heard about it. thought what this is about you know vegetable growing but anyway it's the game of squash and you can do this obviously tennis soccer football you know basketball you name it and they create a whole community center around this where they bring in kids and their families and they start in middle school and they mentor them all the way through and the state of Maine uh provides some support for this the city of Portland does and there's a lot of private donors and they're trying to take this as an idea across the country was a new version of the YMCA which was of course the young men's Christian associ assiation was also intended to get young men off the street into sports into more healthy and uh spiritually guided activities. So look, I think there are all kinds of examples out there, but we've got to lean into it and not just, you know, take it for granted that someone's going to deal with it. >> Dr. Fiona Hill is a senior fellow at Brookings, Chancellor of Durham University, and a former US National Security Council official specializing in Russian and European affairs. Fiona is also the best-selling author of There Is Nothing for You Here: Finding Opportunity in the 21st Century and a leading expert on geopolitics. Uh Dr. Hill, I loved when you said that podcasts were beginning to punch above the weight class and have more of an influence. And I think the reason we're able to do that is we bring out outstanding, thoughtful, fearless guests. And you're one of them. This is your second time on the show. you your first one was one of the most downloaded shows we have ever uh registered in 400 shows. So your your work is resonating and we very much appreciate your time. >> Oh, thanks so much Scott. It's really great to be with you. Thanks so much. [Music]