I'm curious what has surprised you about the most recent iteration of uh the Epstein scandal and if you have any speculation around where it heads and what it means for both parties and Trump. I mean their level of obvious panic around it. I can't tell you what's at the center of that panic, but as you say, he has been quite uh consistent on his anger about this, his desire that these files now are not released, whatever he was saying at another point. Um, Mike Johnson recessing the house was a a moment that I think even if you've been a bit skeptical that you know that beneath the smoke there's fire certainly made a lot of people look at it differently. >> Ezra, where does this podcast find you? >> Uh, I'm at the Times. I am in New York. I am getting ready to go to Berlin. >> Berlin? What's in Berlin? Uh my closest friend from childhood uh lives in Nairobi. So for his 40th birthday, a bunch of his friends who live in different places are gathering in Berlin for a couple days. Wait, closest friend? 40th? Are you that young? >> I am 41. Oh god, I hate you. You're 41. Jesus Christ, I feel so insignificant. Oh my god, you're this successful at 41. >> I don't know about insignificance, Scott. >> Oh my god. Were you like one of those kids who was getting journalism awards when you were like nine or something? >> No, I never wanted to do journalism. I got into it accidentally. >> Wow. What did you do right out of college? >> Uh, I was a blogger. So, I got into I did journalism out of college, but because I got into blogging early. >> Yeah. >> I was one of those nerds who blogged in 2003. >> Wow. That's that's um Anyways, that's very impressive, young man. Okay, so let's bust right into it. You recently debated whether Trump is leading America into a new golden age. Uh in your closing remarks, you asked some or you said something that kind of stuck with me and that is you asked are we even in a decent age? What did you mean by that? >> So this debate which is put on by the bunk debates was between me and Ben Rhodess of of the pod save the world and then uh Kevin Roberts who is best known for the architect of project 2025 and Kellyanne Conway. And one of my worries going into the debate was so the way they score these debates at Monk is that everybody is pulled on whether or not they agree with the thesis walking in the door and nobody who's going to agree that America's entering a new golden age in Canada, right? That's not you're not going to find a huge amount of ascent for that in the audience. So one of the things I was saying at the end was that I I thought it was too easy to argue that we're not entering a new golden age. that where we were was much further down Masow's hierarchy of political or or societal needs, which is that we have entered a deeply indecent age in which the both reality and aesthetic of cruelty has become prized and projected from the very top. And you look at the White House uh Twitter account putting out, you know, Studio Giblly memes of immigrants crying while they're being deported. There is a a kind of delight in sadism that is so that that far before I think we need to debate are we you know when's the next golden age going to be we're going to have to pull ourselves out of glorifying indecency. So well before I I think that especially infects the right where they've conflated masculinity with coarseness and cruelty and you know when what's going on is is going on I think you also have to acknowledge that the left I love that I forget what his name is that German theologian or actor who said um America's coming to grips with the fact that a third of America would kill the other third by a third watched. And I think you got to acknowledge that with everything that's going on, there's some moderates and democrats that are complicit, comfortable with this type of I don't know, USAD being cut off. Do you think that leadership has been conflated with a certain level of cruelty? So I think the first thing you said that there is a version of masculinity that has been conflated with cruelty. I remember when Elon Musk and Donald Trump were accusing each other of everything under the sun as the um influencers on the right reacted like kids watching their parents about to get divorced. There was a a little a little burst of trying to justify Musk saying Trump was in the Epstein files, which maybe maybe he was um by saying, "Oh, you guys just aren't used to watching alphas fight it out. You don't know what it's like to be around alpha males, >> right?" >> And I think of this as sort of the flip side. Uh I I don't the left is complicit and has its own problems. Um I don't know it's complicit in this, but what it what it did do which I think helped create this in certain ways is there was so little room for a decent masculinity on the left, right? So much of masculinity was termed toxic that it created a lot of space for a fairly sadistic image of masculinity to rise. Right? in in a weird way uh in a weird way justifying the prophecy of toxic masculinity but the Andrew Tates and so on of the world and you know I know this something that you focus on a lot but in the absence of a more self-confident grounded mature masculinity that is able to present itself and is proud of itself for being such you leave the door open to some very very insecure brat Aggie um and sort of I think pathetic renditions of it. One of the things I always think about in in in the MAGA world is look Trump is Trump. Say what you will about him. The guy is very grounded in who he himself is. He's been this guy for a long time. All these people who have put on the Trump suit, starting with JD Vance, but you can look at Ted Cruz, you can look at a lot of them, who did not talk like this, did not act like this, did not think this was a way even to be in public a decade ago and have, you know, put on the cloak of it in order to be competitive, in order to be part of it. and you know now treat that as a kind of display of alpha male characteristics when it's a deeply deeply beta uh process of just kind of following the leader you know but but because of that because they it's not leavened by Trump's own sense of who he is they actually I think lean further into just cruelty oftent times than he does that there's no there's nothing else there because it's it is for them an act that has become real >> so uh Trump's popularity is at an all-time low for a president in this stage of his presidency, but at the same time, the Democrats are even less popular, and there's polls showing that if the election were held again today, he would still win. Uh, is this uh lack of decency um is it working? >> I don't think when you have watched a popularity drop as fast as President Trump's has, you can say it's working. Um, what's not working is the Democratic party being leaderless and ruerless. Uh, I'm not shocked that at the moment if you ask people in a poll who they'd vote for, like they don't really know what to say. Like which Democrat? What do they know about them? But the Democratic party is in a pretty shattered place. I've had a little bit of more trouble than other people do or let a bit differently. I'm a little bit less confident than other people seem to be in interpreting those polls because one of the kind of structural characteristics of the past couple decades is people's dislike of the parties is getting higher and higher and higher and it doesn't drive their voting decisions in quite the way it has at other times but nevertheless they do not like the parties and so one of the reasons the Democratic party is very unpopular right now is Democrats do not like it. Now, those people are not going to vote Republican, but they are pissed off at the Democratic party, which has to them been unable to stop uh the worst of what Trump is doing, which has to them not come up with a message or come up with a set of leaders. It's going to have to be a process of I mean, first it's going to be the midterms and they're going to have to figure out how to be in in opposition in a way that coheres, but there's going to be a process of having to find leaders. Again, this is the first time the Democratic Party has been leaderless in a very, very long time. Like even if you go back to something like 2008, you had Hillary Clinton as the era parent and you had for some time and that obviously ended up being Obama. But so you had like you know the the assumed leader, you had uh you know like real rising talent. This is the most um open field for leadership in the Democratic party probably in my lifetime at least since '92. at a time when uh in a way that is very different from 92, the other side, right, the the the the Trumpian side is completely coherent around a single leader and is a much more dangerous and very different force, right? The difference between not having an unbelievably clear opposition leader to George HW Bush and not having one to Donald Trump. I mean, those are those are fairly different uh scenarios to be in. >> Yeah, it really is striking. It I agree with you. It feels like this is the most the biggest vacuum I've ever observed on either side. >> Do you feel anybody stepping up into it? >> I get a lot as I'm sure you do. Who do you see emerging? Who do you see as the next leader or leaders of the of the Democratic party? And we can have that conversation and my guess is a lot of the you know the ven overlap will be about 90%. Right now everyone loves Andy Basher because no one knows him that well. Everyone's hoping for some Phoenix to rise that's amazing. So they want someone they've heard of but they don't really know yet. And I think that's Andy Basher. Anyways, the the question that was presented to me that I want to present to you that I thought was really interesting is what do you think the profile is of the person who will likely emerge as the new leader of the Democratic party? I don't think it's leader Jeff. I know it's not uh Senator Schumer, but I thought that was an interesting question. What does this person potentially look, smell, and feel like? What are your thoughts? >> Congressional leadership has not served as a public face of the parties for a long time. To what the profile is, the truth is I don't know. Um, we tend to get the profile wrong at this stage in an electoral cycle because we tend to be trying to refight the last election. So, I always talk about this, but in um after the '04 election, which was, I think, the last loss that was truly shattering for for for Democrats, um there was a period of time when what they wanted to do was find somebody they felt was tough enough and Christian enough to win back the Heartland, you know. So you had these sort of booms around people like, you know, maybe John Edwards who's a southerner or maybe it'd be the governor of Montana and he wore a bolo tie and seemed like he was very tough talking. Maybe they needed a general of some sort. Eventually it's Barack Obama. Um and then in 2012 after Mitt Romney loses, there's, you know, the famed Republican autopsy and they, you know, they need to moderate themselves on immigration and maybe it's somebody like Marco Rubio and of course it's or Jeb Bush in Florida. Of course, it ends up being Donald Trump, which is not on anybody's mind. The person who will fit the next moment is not the person who will fit the particular set of problems Democrats faced in the last election. So, I think you have to be looking for somebody who seems organic to whatever is coming. I don't think we've seen that person yet. I don't I'm not saying we don't that when we do see it we won't know they you know that they won't have been known by now but I don't think anybody has emerged as so right for where we are going with such a command of what seems to be where the country wants to be in a couple of years that I would put them you know or or their profile strongly at the front. >> Yeah. And and to be fair to the field out there at this point we hadn't heard of Clinton or Obama right it's still pretty early. I mean, we knew by this point in ' 05, we probably The assumption was Hillary Clinton was going to run, but the assumption was Barack Obama would not run yet. I mean, it seemed crazy. He had just been elected. >> Well, just to date myself, I I had a Paul Sonis sign in my window in graduate school. There you go. You remember him? And uh >> I got excited about Gary Hart in 2004. >> There you go. Yeah. There you go. >> Um what a I'll put forward a thesis and you push back or validate it. Um, when I was asked that question, I said, I know who's not going to be, and that is nobody under 5' 10. Uh, I think neither I think the Democrats are not going to take a chance a third time on nominating a woman, despite the fact that some of the stronger candidates are female. And two, it's not going to be anyone under the um height of 5' 10, which is an uncomfortable thing to say out loud. I think America's highly lookist and highly sexist. that um what I was comfortable saying was I thought it was an 80 or 90% chance it was going to be a straight white male over the height of 6 foot because Democrats would be looking to basically just have no excuses this time. Uh your thoughts? >> I don't really buy it. Um it might be true. Uh just in the sense that plenty of politicians who are going to be you know significant figures in 2028 are you know white men over the over the over 5'10. I would not count say Pete Buddhajuch out. If you were asking me who's well positioned, he's very well positioned and he's very politically talented and political talent counts for a lot. And I believe he's under 510. I guess I could be wrong about that, but I I think that's right. So again, it's often candidates who almost look like everything you would not want from the moment of the last election who end up dominating in the next election. uh you know, Barack Obama wins after this election. It's all about flag pins and national security. And here we have this like neopight, you know, guy with uh the middle name Hussein and funny ears from, you know, Chicago. Yep. >> Uh you know, Donald Trump at the time when Republicans, you need to moderate on on immigration is coming down saying Mexico is sending us our their murderers and their rapists. I'm very careful with any predictions that say that draw a straight line from how the party is feeling, how it is conceptualized its loss now to to the next. The version of that I would do is the next leader of the Democratic party will be somebody who is an absolute apex communicator. I think the thing that happened with Biden in a sort of different way with Harris is the party in in and in a different way with Hillary Clinton too. the party went to these figures who were coalitionally unifying for it but who were never strong communicators um or at least Biden by the time he was running for for president was not a strong communicator in 2020 and definitely in 2024 and if the party has come I think to any view about itself it it's losing the battle for attention so if you cannot be a politician who conceptually you know whether or not I actually get invited can go on flagrant can go on Ovon can go on pivot can go on these places where you have to speak extemporaneously. >> Go on Hannity. >> Go on Hannity. Right. So one of the reasons Buddhajge is a fascinating candidate is that he has proven to the party that he more than clears a communications bar. He is considered by most to be the best communicator in the party right now. He's not the only one, right? Um I think a lot of them can do this. Um and some of them are trying, right? Roana was just on flagrant, right? Wes Moore is going to I think be very very good on this. For all that there's weirdnesses around the way he chose to do it. The fact that Gavin Newsome is sitting down with people he doesn't agree with week after week and sort of learning how they think and learning how to do that is going to make him stronger by the time if he decides to run in 2028. He's getting training the other ones are not. >> So in some ways the ones I worry about more the ones with the not worry about. The ones I think are going to have a harder time are the ones who are operating under the old communication rules where what is rewarded is caution and not making mistakes. What you're going to need are people capable of being omnipresent uh in a way that Joe Biden wasn't in a way that Kla Harris wasn't willing to do. the sense that you need somebody authentic to this era of communication which may even have changed and I think even has changed from 2024 like even Zan Mani saying is very different than how Donald Trump worked but you're going to have to have somebody who people feel is capable of winning the communication wars of this moment in these mediums >> just to talk about uh Secretary and Buddhajes for a second. Do you think America is ready for a gay president or more specifically do you think the black community in South Carolina is ready for a gay president? I think that when people ask us, it's always about which person and how are they able to navigate the the concerns and fears people have. Here are a couple things I can I can tell you. When people were doing polling in the period when Joe Biden was when it seemed like he might step down and it wasn't yet complete fat complaint, it would just move to to Harris. Buddha Judge was in some of the polls I saw the best polling Democrat anybody could find. Um it wasn't by a ton, just by a couple points, but it was still he was beating the others. Uh so that's one thing. The other thing about Buddha Judge is he is capable. He did this in his convention speech, but I've seen him do it a lot because I think for him being married and having a family was something he grew up not knowing if it would be there for him. He is able to do something that some politicians particularly when they they're they're sort of firsts in a way can sometimes do which is that he's able to speak of family and speak of an almost traditional approach to values to masculinity to fatherhood to parenthood to fidelity in a way that is novel in a way that reimbuses it with a kind of of of wonder and almost holiness. He is much better at talking about family than virtually any other politician on the field right now. So I think when you say something like, you know, is X and Y group ready for a a Z president? Well, it's like what is what are the stereotypes of Z for them, right? What what have they been taught to fear? And that's the set of questions that that person is going to have to overcome. Um, you know, always has been. And I think in in this case, there's always been something about this question of of of family and traditionalism and and are we breaking something? Um, I mean, this was always a fight about gay marriage for years and years and years before it became the law of the land. And Buddha Judge is somebody who I think because of how like ferocious his commitment to the life he has built a little bit beyond his own expectations is he is very very very skilled at talking about that in a way that is fairly beautiful and affecting. So I don't know if America's ready for a gay president. Is it ready for Pete Buddha Judge? I think that's going to be a different question. We'll be right back. So, you recently wrote a piece in the New York Times titled Why American Jews No Longer Understand One. In it, and I thought it, by the way, it really resonated with me. And it you write that the consensus held was that American or the consensus that held American Jews together for generations is cracked and that what is good for Israel is good for the Jews no longer holds. What do you think ultimately say a say more about that? What do you think ultimately broke that consensus? So the piece for me was motivated in this moment by by seeing the the fights in so many film I knew um about Mandani where you would have young Jews in New York who were voting for him who really liked him older Jews um and I'm stereotyping a little bit but this is mostly what I saw who were horrified who saw him as semi you know uh and I've been as I've been covering you know Israel and Gaza and also the politics of it here for you know a couple years now um feeling this fish are widening and there's a lot of dimensions to it. The thing I say in that piece is that the the consensus that held American jewelry together for a very long time was fundamentally about Zionism. It was that Israel is good for the Jews and we need to be even in America committed to it. That opposition to Israel, particularly the opposition is Israel as a Jewish state is anti-Semitic. that Israel is seeking a two-state solution and will probably either find one soon or if it doesn't, it is not their fault. And as that consensus is broken down um for a lot of reasons, but but but in this moment because a two-state solution is nothing that Israel wants and Israel is now um it seems inflicting a a mass starvation event on on Gaza, which is broken through to the to to to the media and and and to people. this question of what does it mean to what what is the the relationship American Jews should have with Israel and through that with each other has has really polarized. So you've had um a fair amount of the community polarized around Israel, right? We need to defend Israel. You know, they're living in a neighborhood where everybody wants to kill them and Hamas could release the hostages if Hamas wanted to. So anything that happens on on on this is is on their shoulders. And then another set that is moving away from it, that wants no part of what this is, not just no part of this war, but no part of government after government that is incredibly right-wing that is building settlements in the West Bank at an expanding pace. And as a two-state solution has functionally dissolved as a live political project. It no longer exists as a kind of parking lot that can reconcile the liberalism of American Jews and their commitment to Israel. If Israel simply intends to rule over 7 million Palestinians who will not have rights, um you know, is Palestinian Israelis or Arab Israelis have some rights, but it's not like what Jewish Israelis have. And then in West Bank and Gaza, it's a horror show. Uh there is not the capacity anymore to sort of explain that away. And so then what do you do? Do you believe in um equality everywhere, but in the place meant to be your spiritual home? Do you support what has become a a structure of apartheid? um you know people don't love the word but we don't have that many for it. Where do you end up? And there's not an answer right now. There isn't uh a solution, a policy move or anything that can that can sort of reunite the these two these two questions. And Israel itself, its politics have changed dramatically and it is seeking alliance with other right-wing ethnist governments in the way this really changing the meaning of Israel on the world stage. So, it's a it's a very very it's a tricky and very heartbreaking moment. >> Yeah, it's and um I would love to hear more about how you personally feel as someone who is an atheist and never felt much connection with Judaism. Mother's Jewish consider myself Jewish, but never really connected with Israel or Judaism. And then October the 8th, I decided I was a full-blown Zionist. And in since then, it's become increasingly hard. It's just, you know, the diaspora, I think, is really conflicted. And when I think about brand Israel, the strongest component of brand Israel, I think, used to be that they were seen as the good guys. And uh the David to the Goliath, if you will, and I think that's no longer the case. At the same time, I'm curious to get your take here. I think the rest of the world and a certain element of America is really um drawn to the strength and victory of Israel. I mean, if you take look at the Houthis, if you look at Hezbollah, obviously Hamas, um I mean, Israel's taken out Iran effectively or at least now rules the skies over Iran. And I think strength um strength is a fantastic brand association. So, the brand is shifting, but there are some, I would argue, elements of the brand that are very aspirational and getting a lot of recognition from around the world. Your thoughts? I think if you look on the right, Zionism has come to mean, this actually goes, I think, back to our conversation about masculinity at the beginning. Zionism has come to be a symbol of a certain belief in strength. Israel is Sparta or the closest thing like this world still has in a way to a Sparta. The issue for that, I mean, I I I can't say I really think about too much in terms of brands, but the issue with that is one, it is losing vast amounts of other kinds of support. I mean the France command said it was going to recognize a Palestinian state. That has not happened before. When you say what Israel means around the world, Israel's reputation around the world, you look at how Israel is seen around the world and it is terrible, right? I mean, whatever debates we're having in America, that is not the dominant debate in the rest of the world. The rest of the world is moving very very very far away from Israel for the most part. Um, you know, if you go look at say global polling on Israel. But, you know, back sort of to to how I think about it here. One, American Jews overwhelmingly are liberal. They believe in human rights. They believe in multi-thnic democracy. And they that that's not accidental. Um that is the set of ideas and ideals on which American Jews to some degree now European Jews on which like the the safety of the diaspora is built. Right? If the view is you can just dominate your ethnic minorities, then the Jews of the diaspora are [ __ ] right? Because we are an ethnic minority wherever we are. And so it is not accidental that this deep commitment to liberalism as a mode of politics, right? Not talking here about like the American left, but the the broader thing we mean when we say liberalism, it runs very deep in American in jewelry. And so, yes, Israel is moving to where its allies are, people like Donald Trump, right? JD Vance, Victor Orban, um, sort of right-wing ethnist strong men. What does that mean for Israel next time Democrats are in power and the Democrat who is in power is not 80ome years old and remembers Israel at its founding? What does that mean for Israel in 10 years if it is just accepted that it's an aparttheid state when there's no when there's no more excuses left to be made? So in terms of the the long term, I don't think that's a very safe place to be. Um what does strength get you? I mean the ability to to execute military operations, but Israel is not using its strength wisely or judiciously. Um th this morning I woke up and an Israeli uh commentator I know I don't know if it's published yet so I don't want to say who it is but sent me a piece that that he's been writing and he's not a person like on the far left just saying if we don't do something Senoir will have won from beyond the grave because the way the world is looking at us is Hamas's ultimate dream that they wanted Hamas wanted the the world to see us as butchers. They wanted to see us as having no respect for Palestine life and and and to be invested in only domination. And now that is beginning to be what they're seeing. And so, you know, it's like in any war, right? The bombings are the easy part if you have the firepower. It's always been easier to take out. I mean, Israel has done amazing military operations functionally for its entire history, right? It's knocked out nuclear reactors before. Um although it needed us in this case to to help with that. And we don't really know how much was done. Like for all we know, in a year Iran is going to pop up with a nuclear weapon, right? They're just going to do they're just going to do a sprint in the background. So I don't know that we know how these stories have ended. But you know, as with Iraq, as with Afghanistan, as with so many of these, the invasion, the bombing, the shock and awe, if you have the military technology is often the easy part. It's what do you do when you're ruling over those ruins? And it is very telling that almost two years after October 7th, Israel still has never put forward a day after planning Gaza, right? It doesn't have a a vision of how it should be governed because it doesn't know. >> Could a lot of these problems with the brand perception or the perception um the the erosion in the sentiment or goodwill towards Israel around the world, which I agree with. Do you think a lot of that could be repaired quite frankly if Netanyahu leaves the stage and Israel does a hard pivot away from these policies um that when that might you know that that might go a long way to repairing um their reputation and also at the end of the day isn't it I mean it what the world thinks of them is very important but what the kingdom thinks of them and uh their neighbors uh believing that they have kind of exhausted their ability to invade or eliminate Israel. Um, that obviously hasn't worked. I mean, at the end of the day, could Israel argue this has been worth it? I don't know. I mean, you'd have to ask Israel if they think it's been worth it. I think obviously, at least its government currently does. Um, not obviously worth the death of October 7th, but but but the the cost of their military operations. Um, I guess maybe the the place I would probably part, I don't think what Israel has is a brand problem. I think what they have is a reality problem. I mean, they are currently committing war crimes. There is just no other way to describe. They have choked off food to Palestinians in Gaza, a people under occupation from them. No matter what the uh insurgent or terrorist group that you're dealing with uh wants or doesn't want or will agree to or will not agree to under the rules of war, you cannot do that. You cannot hold the entire civilian um uh population responsible. The idea that Hamas was stealing the aid has now been looked into and has proven false at any systemic level. They and you know in the West Bank they're building um settlements at a torrent rate. There's a lot more violence uh against Westbank Palestinians from the treetop or the hilltop youth. Uh so yes, I mean it is the case that Israel could emerge as a kind of brutal ethnostate. I mean or maybe is a brutal ethnostate that just rules over this and nobody can really do anything about it. In the long run, I don't think that's stable in the world we live in. But I'm not going to I don't want to tell you that, you know, you cannot have brutal states in modernity. You certainly can. I just think that's a bad thing. I think that it's going to be a bad thing for Jews worldwide. I think it's going to be a bad thing for what it means to be Jewish. I think it's obviously going to be horror for the Palestinians. I mean, my problem with this is not really so much Israel's brand. I think we often filter a lot of American conversations when we're among people who are sort of like committed to the long-term health of Israel and the Jews through the question of is it good for Israel and the Jews. Um but even some world where you can say for Israel's interests as a state ongoing domination in aparttheid like structure is good for the way they have defined their interests. I still think it's bad, right? That violates my values as a human being and like as a political thinker. And so in the long run, it will lose support for that, but I'm not, you know, you could certainly make an argument that it'll find other it'll pick up other support. Maybe it'll become very close with Russia, right? You know, there there's always ways to to sort of rejigger your alliances alongside um your your values, but you know, it it comes with a a kind of deep cost as well. And the the term war crimes obviously is a serious term. Do you think America's guilty of similar war crimes across almost every war it's engaged in since World War II? >> America's been guilty of some war crimes. Mass starvation of civilian populations is usually not one of them. There's a good I don't know if you've read the the New York magazine cover story on this. It'd be worth having her on. Like this has been the people I know who who do this work. They don't they think this has moved out of just normal war. >> We're going to need a bigger boat. So we're going to we're going to move on to local New York politics. Um, mom Donnie, your turn. [Laughter] >> Um, you know, we'll see, right? >> The guy ran an amazing campaign. Um, >> yeah, agreed. >> He has often say that there are two kinds of politicians. The kind that communicate about policy and the kind that communicate through policy. And Madani is the kind that communicates through policy. Right? every one of his policies, freeze the rent, free buses, free daycare, you know, government owned grocery stores, they say something about him, right? They're about his values, about how he views society, right? They're they're they're mimemetic. Um the question is if he wins, and I think he's you got to see him as a favorite at this point, uh can he govern effectively? So, a bunch of those policies need a bunch of money. He does not have any control over taxes. he would have to go to Albany and Governor Kathy Hokll who has said she will not raise taxes. So he under virtually any scenario we can see is not going to have the money to do the things he wants to do. You know some of them free buses actually would not be that expensive. You could probably you know get that from somewhere else in the New York City um you know budget. Uh but in terms of big things it's very unlikely he'll be able to pull together the money for that. I also think that if he wins, Donald Trump is going to see him as a kind of soft target and go to war with Mum Donnie. And that will include taking a lot of money or trying to take a lot of money, the federal government um flow that flows from the federal government into New York City away from him. Uh so that could be a sort of crisis that you know there's real questions about how he'll be able to respond to it. Then there's the freeze the rent dynamic which you know for a year or two and I get why that policy is popular. If you're living in um you know some in rent control or stabilized housing or some or housing that is meant to be affordable and the rent has gone up by 10 or 12%. That's terrible for you. Um if you do an extended rent freeze, you're going to reduce the uh incentive by a lot to repair those buildings and to build new ones, right? There's no way of getting around that. So, you need to be really opening the floodgates some other way on construction. And when I look at M Donniey's proposals, when I've, you know, talked to him and heard him talk about this, I think a lot of his head is in the right place. I'm not sure he's willing to disappoint the people he would need to disappoint or wield enough power to really unleash a building boom at a at an affordable cost for for him. Really, most of his plans have focused on publicly public housing. Um, which is great. Uh but New York City has not built public housing at that level in a very very long time and whether or not it still can uh is a little bit unknown and whether it can under the kind of laws that it currently has and regulations and deals it has made it probably can't if you don't change those. Will Mi be willing to disappoint his friends and pick the fights to change those? I don't know. So he's somebody who has an incredible amount of talent. I think it'll matter a lot who we see him surrounding himself with. Who does he listen to? Who would his police chief be? What would his relationship with the police be like? Who will be, you know, helping him run all of this, right? Will Brad Lander be his first deputy mayor? That would be, I think, you know, one world. And I think that would be an encouraging sign. But I think there is still a lot that is unknown. The the the the transition from being a movement leader, which is what M Donnie is in a campaign context, to being an executive is a very big transition, as you know, as you know better than me. and the question of can he sort of wield executive power and you know tack when policies aren't working out or come up with alternatives when he doesn't have the money you know or kind of browbe people or make allies you wouldn't expect them to make and listen to people you wouldn't expect him to listen to you know all that remains to be seen >> strikes me that it's a no it's a no-brainer if he just has lunch very publicly with Michael Bloomberg once a week up until the election that if he just pivots to sort or the old guard or or softens his image a little bit. Kind of roughs, you know, sands out the rough edges that he's a he's a lock. I I would think the and I think a lot of people feel a little bit conflicted. They'd say, "Okay, I don't love his policies. Some of his some of the things he's said in the past are somewhat troubling, but at the same time, I think it's difficult not to be inspired, right? It's my understanding is 4,000 young Democrats or people under the age of 40 filled out paperwork to run for office after he won, which is, you know, which is a good thing. And what also struck me, and I'm curious to get your thoughts, was how similar it was to the Trump campaign, a focus on affordability and weaponizing these new mediums. Isn't to regardless of what you think of his politics, doesn't it doesn't it potentially Mami's victory potentially sort of illuminate a path for Democrats moving forward in terms of how they should be acquitting themselves or prosecuting a a campaign? >> I'm not sure. Um there are a lot of lessons from Mamani obviously, but I think one of it is find incredible political talents that are well matched to the places they're running. So, look, I mean, the guy wins by I forget the exact margin in the primary now, but you're talking about a win, I think, was in the a little bit over 10 points range in a New York City primary. Uh, or >> 10% of the total vote voted for him. Is that what you're saying? >> No, no, no. 10. His margin over Cuomo was I think around, you know, 10, 12, 14 points, something like that. That's great, right? That's a very impressive victory. Cuomo came in with a lot more money than he had. Uh, first he hasn't won the general yet. I think he will, but let's not totally get ahead of ourselves. Um and Cuomo was a very very very weak and um obviously scandalridden candidate who ran a terrible campaign. So the question is can you run like mom Donnie trying to win a Senate seat in Kansas City or Wisconsin? Can you win the governorship in Wisconsin that way? Right? There are these elections that are going to have to be fit to the place where the person is running. I think the thing you see in some of these figures who are overperforming Mamani or you know in a very different way Ruben Ggo in um Arizona uh I've been impressed with what I'm seeing from John Of in this re-election campaign he's running in Georgia is what you need is not like the one recipe you need candidates who are compelling on their own and one reason they are compelling on their own is that they know who they are and they're willing to stand up for it and sometimes that is to the left of where you know much of the electorate is comfortable with them being sometimes it's like a little bit to the right but but there is something about being willing to unleash the energy of some conflict around yourself right not being so careful and cautious and pole tested and mealymouthed that everybody feels when they hear you talk like the first thing happening in your mind is a filter that is catching anything you might say that anyone might not like first. People really sense when they're not quite talking to you. And when you talk to mom Donnie or you hear him talking, you're talking to him. When you talk to Gigo or you hear him talking, you're talking to him or that's true for Angie Craig, right? That's true for Elise Slotkin. There are a lot of really good candidates, but one thing that those candidates tend to have is an authenticity. And you watch them, you're like, "Yeah, I would keep listening to this person." One other thing I will just say about Mondani that that I've always found to be a big part of his appeal and what makes him a a real political talent is he feels very motivated by his sympathies and not his resentments. That's not in my view how Donald Trump feels. But it's also not how a lot of people on the left feel. Uh often times people in politics they feel more motivated by who they hate than who they're in this for. and Mam Dani who took a lot of flack, right? You know, who got a lot of unfair attacks. Nevertheless, there was a a fundamental friendliness to his campaign, a sense that even if you disagreed with him, he didn't hate you. He wasn't looking to push you out of his circle. He wanted you in there. He wanted you in that tent. And that idea that there is a political value to what you might call like at a high political theory level pluralism and what you might call as a normal human being like friendliness and openness to other people. Uh I I I think that's easy to underestimate. I think that a real failure of the left and I don't just mean like the democratic socialist left. I mean like the the broad, you know, left of the center was developing a politics that seemed like it was more interested at times and a communication style and figuring out who wasn't on our side and making that clear than inviting people, even people who didn't agree with us in at least halfway. And Manny though, he's, you know, to a lot of people's left, he doesn't feel that way. He's looking for where you agree with him, not where, you know, he can kick you out. You've likened Trump uh you've likened Trump to a living Twitter algorithm, which I love, saying that his focus generally drifts from being uh from thing to thing. Uh not because he's trying to distract us uh but because he himself is easily distractable. Uh I would my sense is right now that may in fact not be true that he's he's the majority of his focus right now is on weapons of mass distraction from abstain. I'm curious what has surprised you about the most recent iteration of uh the Epstein scandal and if you have any speculation around where it heads and what it means for both parties and Trump. I mean the level of obvious panic around it. I can't tell you what's at the center of that panic. But as you say, he has been quite uh consistent on his anger about this, his desire that these files now are not released, whatever he was saying at another point. Um Mike Johnson recessing the house rather than allowing that vote. >> Yeah. >> Epste is now closing Epstein has closed the government. I mean that >> Yeah. It was a a moment that I think even if you've been a bit skeptical that you know that beneath the smoke, this fire certainly made a lot of people look at it differently. Where it goes from here, I don't know. It doesn't feel to me like it's going away. I feel I've said on pivot the fix is in that all of a sudden they've decided they want to speak to Jelane Maxwell after she's been there for several years that it has been communicated to her that she will get a pardon if if in fact her comments come across as exonerating the president. To me this feels just plain as day. Your thoughts? >> I think the fact that so many people believe that is going to make that move a little bit hard to run. Now look like my view is not that Epstein is going to bring down Donald Trump and you know the Wall Street Journal reports that he is somewhere in those files maybe multiple times. You know where he is in them. I don't know. It could just be notes of them being at parties together. It's one of these things that I I wonder how much what's in there would confirm what we know which is that they were good friends and he knew about Epstein. Right. Trump is the first person to my knowledge on record in this New York magazine story from what was it 06 saying publicly Jeffrey Epstein likes young women right he says um a lot of people say Epstein likes beautiful women almost as much as I do and he likes them young Trump knew whatever else you want to say about it Trump knew so and we know Trump knew but sometimes there's something more uh sticky about finding it in the official files than, you know, reading into, you know, a quote from 20 years ago. So, yeah, maybe they try to trot out Glaine and maybe she does give testimony that seems exonerating. And in a world where it seems like she got something for that or people suspect she did, I'm not sure how persuasive that will be. I think there's still going to be a lot of calls to release these. Then at some point, Democrats, if they take the House in 2026 and then, you know, have it in in 2027, I think you should expect that to be passing a bunch. And if Republicans have the Senate, now you have like the Senate and the House fighting over this legislation. Maybe you have oversight committees that are subpoening people again under a Democratic House to get information and to have testimony and people are actually paying attention to that testimony. I it it's one of the first places where I think Democrats have seen real weakness with Trump. And so I don't expect that it is simply going to dissolve. But nor do I think that one should expect that it's going to, you know, become what liberals once hoped, you know, you know, the Muller report would become and something will happen and that's the end of the Trump administration. >> If you were advising the Democratic party on how to handle the whole Epstein scandal, what would your advice be? >> If I were advising them, I mean, you keep up the pressure. Ro Khan has been very sharp on this and he's been very smart on this and you focus on issues that are going to crack the other side's coalition and you weave this into a larger argument about corruption. This is one of many examples that Donald Trump uh and the people around him are astonishingly corrupt and you know John OA has been doing this on the campaign trail in a way I think is is is effective. This is a place where, you know, these powerful people banded together to pull one over on you, right? You know, whip you up about the Epstein files. And as soon as they got what they wanted from you, which was your votes, your support, your faith, they turn around and spent it on tax cuts for themselves. And you don't get the Epstein files, you get Medicaid cuts, you get food stamp cuts. You know, meanwhile, Trump is taking Qatari jets and he's taking, you know, making billions of dollars on crypto meme coins and he is over and over and over and over again screwing people over to line his own pocket and that of his friends. And this becomes in a kind of an oversight structure one of many things Democrats will be going after to build a case about what has always been to me the very soft underbelly of this administration which is that they said they would come here and govern on your behalf and they're just making themselves rich and they're screwing you over. We'll be right back after a quick break. you and the and Derek Thompson who were big fans of uh put out Abundance earlier this year. What surprised you most about the response to it? What issues do you think got more attention than you were expecting or less attention than you were expecting? >> I mean the level of response to it uh surprised me. You know, you you release a book that is about in substantial portion, you know, how strong the state is in state capacity and zoning policy and housing and, you know, how hard it is to build transmission lines and issues in scientific institutions. You know, you you you could see a world for that book. Probably the modal world is some respectful reviews and then you kind of everybody moves on with their life. So, the fact that it became this huge discourse object that it's, you know, at least as of last week still on the bestseller list, whatever it is 18 weeks later, um, that's been amazing. I didn't expect the backlash from like the I'd call like the neop populace left that we got. We didn't get a backlash from all parts of the left, but that wasn't one I was expecting sort of brand people very focused on on corporate power because I didn't see it coming because I don't see abundance as in conflict with that. What I came to realize over time and over talking to them was that abundance is sort of more underlying theory of politics which I think is more liberal theory of politics which is that power is illused in a lot of places. There's no one kind of power that if you just broke it you would get the society you wanted right for abundance the uh kind of list of enemies is not just like corporations and rich people. Sometimes those are your problem and sometimes you have lots of other problems that you know those don't fix. So I think that became uh it became in my view the fight over abundance became a version of a fight that is inside the Democratic party between you know what we may call liberalism and populism which are are more structurally different ways of viewing politics. Of course those can be synthesized and I think skilled politicians will do that. But I do think it is a very real divide in people's implicit way of thinking about what what the problem is and how to solve it. >> Yeah. The thing I I was disappointed that Democrats it seemed like an argument over the theories as opposed to trying to inspire a thoughtful conversation around specific programs. And the thing I took away from it and that you and Derek kind of inspired in my mind was and one of my disappointments with the Democratic party is they're long on rhetorical flourish and short on actual programs and big bold ideas. But the thing I took away from listening to your interviews in the book was, you know, 8 million houses in 10 years. Let's build 8 million manufactured homes which cost 30 to 50% less than on-site homes and create little cool communities for young people which will create cool uh and basically just say to Americans your kids going to be able to afford a house if they're making a decent living like right there just one program specific number specific cost let's get on it and we got seems like diverted into this existential argument over what abundance means and the externalities of it. So was your intent to fment a conversation around some sort of federally backed or uh tax credit private sector unleash inspired housing program? I mean I think that'll come uh as people are coming up with their 2028 plans and trying to think about how you know the you know what abundance means to them and and how they instantiate in policy. I think you're going to see a lot of versions of that. I mean hell Mandani was talking about abundance on the campaign trail. Uh the thing I I think what you're getting at which I feel is true but I I may be more um uh plastered around is the focus was really on the critique um and the critique unleashed a lot of energy because it unleashed a lot of conflict. Right? We're saying government has worked poorly. We have failed in a lot of the places where we liberals, Democrats, people on the left have governed. We have not made life affordable for people. we have not um delivered uh you know big mass infrastructure projects. People have lost faith in the government for a lot of reasons but this is one of them and they're not wrong to do so. Right? If you you know if California comes back to you and says we'd like to try building highspeed rail again I think you should say well what did you learn cuz like right now you're failing. Um I do think that there could be and hopefully will be more conversation about what does abundance actually look like? As you were saying maybe it's 8 million homes in 10 years. I think we could do a lot more on defining and really pushing for clean energy abundance, right? Having a lot more energy, having energy that is on the path to truly being too cheap to meter. That would be an incredible genuine um step forward in in in human wealth. Uh there's so much around innovation and healthcare and healthcare supply and what people have access to. uh like for an extended period of time the question of GLP1s is going to become a very very very important political question because right now Medicaid and Medicare do not cover them as anti-obesity drugs. Um if they did at current prices it would probably bankrupt the system. So this question of how do you create abundance of you know new technologies and and new medications and you know there there is a lot there. So there is a critique of how government works and in some ways of how the the sort of democratic party has governed which has been the focus because people are fighting over that. Uh I do think being a party that can offer people a vision that they can actually feel of what a more abundant America would look like, what it would look like if not just you but your children could afford a home in the place they actually wanted to live. what it would look like if we really were world leaders in next generation energy. What it would look like if we really did have a lot more great public infrastructure and then proved ourselves, you know, ruthless enough to change government to slaughter our own sacred cows to get there. I think that's very compelling. But but yes, that that part that kind of visioning I think has been um even though we start the book with it has been less a part of the conversation than I would like to see. I just want to do I'd love to do a lightning round to specific policy ideas and get just get your quick response to it. Um lower Medicaid eligibility by two years every year for 10 years brings it down to I don't know 40 or 45 which effectively is socialized medicine because I think 70 to 90% of all healthcare costs are people over the age of 40. But basically a slow but steady march towards uh socialized medicine. I've always been pro lowering the Medicare age by a lot and and also doing something like Medicare for kids. >> So, there's been a theory for a long time that you can basically do um a Medicare-like program for kids who are pretty cheap in general called up to 18 and bring Medicare eligibility down to 45. Now, it's worth saying that eligibility is different. You have to decide are you going to subsidize them at the same rate you subsidize people over 65, right? There's all all kinds of questions in probably nobody gives a [ __ ] about this anymore. In the Affordable Care Act, there was almost when the public option is getting killed, a compromise to do Medicare eligibility at 55 and Joe Lieberman personally killed it, which I've never forgiven him for. Um, the late Joe Lieberman. Uh, but um I have always been a big fan of of increasing the the age ranges that Medicare can can cover and building a very clear healthcare system for kids built on public insurance. alternative minimum tax of 50% for anyone making over say $3 million. Elimination of the exemption for uh estate tax. One of my one of my views about 2028 is that the tax code is now too too broken and Democrats should figure out, smart Democrats will figure out an actual simple tax reform that you you got to throw out the code and start over. >> Agreed. and doing something much flatter but but highly progressive, right? Um, and much simpler, you know, that has much simpler rules and not a billion different carveouts and, you know, all of the lobbyists poked holes that we have here. So, you know, something very heavily built around a value added tax, I think, would make sense. You could do you can do progressive consumption taxes, right? There's a lot of ways to do it. your your version is another one of that sort of more oriented towards um richer people. Uh but I think a flat but highly progressive um and flat I should say broad but highly progressive tax code is the way to go. >> So just as we wrap up here and we do appreciate how generous you've been with your time. I'm just curious with the kind of there are I remember Thomas Friedman at Davos 25 years ago talking about the emergence of this supra national the basically nation states as individuals and I thought that was actually quite if you look back quite precient but I also think the same thing has happened there's a certain number of people in media who have developed whose work is so outstanding and that it breaks through but in addition they're able to sort of weaponize different mediums and kind of become bigger than uh platform itself and I think you're one of those people. I'm curious what your strategy is and please don't tell me you don't have a strategy. You just want to do great work. I hate well you can say it but I won't believe you but what is your strategy around these different mediums? Where are you allocating more of your precious human capital around different different technologies different platforms and where are you spending less time when you think about yourself as a content producer and a lot of it is the medium is the message. Which mediums are you over and underinvesting in? >> Well, one thing that I think is a little different about how I approach this than other people is that I tend to be fairly all or nothing. So, I want to have an absolutely amazing podcast, right? I want my show to be amazing. I put a lot of time into that, >> right? I want to be a really good columnist. >> I put a lot of work into those two things. >> Yeah, you do the work. And then I don't do social media. So I'm not really on Instagram. I'm not on X. I'm not on Blue Sky. Um the the podcast is on YouTube, which I think is important, but I think of that as one project. Uh I I'm not myself on TikTok. We put my stuff on Tik Tok and actually does really well there. But but that's part of the the the kind of podcast in my view. I just, you know, and I wrote a book, but I don't write tons of books, right? It's my second book in my, you know, I've been doing this for more than 20 years. This is my second book. Uh, I try to really really really fully put my energy into creating a a fairly discreet number of um, you know, journalistic products that are really good and that lead that create conversations. So, I mean that piece you mentioned on American Jews don't understand each other any longer, that piece took me time. There are, you know, I think six interviews in that piece. not not anything made it into it, but but behind it at the very least. It took me weeks to do. I held it beyond when it was supposed to initially run. We then did a version in audio where we actually wo more of the interviews into it. I wanted that to be something that would create conversation and it really has. And so I I think a I think one of my and this might also be you know I have advantages and you know a big platform so I can I have the privilege of being able to do this but I try to be more engaged in like the role of starting conversations than kind of jumping into them and that's because I find that if I'm jumping into a lot of conversations I find it very very distracting. The other thing that is not a medium that I participate in the way I participate in podcasting, but I just spend a lot of time reading things on paper and I think it's a huge advantage. I think it makes me smarter. It lets me see things that other people aren't seeing. I just I think compared to a lot of people, a lot more of my information diet is books and printouts and a lot less is scrolling and that keeps my work a little bit more different. And uh just in terms of we have a lot of u young people listen to the podcast. A lot of young men actually I think we're 70 or 80% young men. People are going to look at you and think wow 41 I want to be Ezra Klein. Right. You you have my sense is I don't I know you. I don't know you but I sort of know you. And my sense is you're doing something. You have a lot of influence. You seem to like what you do. You're making an exceptional living. Uh you're relevant. And a lot of people probably look at you and think you know I I would I'd like to be in those shoes. I'd like to be in that seat. Can you talk about the one or two biggest influences and what young people can take away in terms of getting you to where you are now? >> I came up through blogging, which was a very different way to come up at a time when that was a very open space, which it isn't now. And so I started a blog when I was a freshman at UC Santa Cruz. And um at that >> University of California, I didn't know that. I didn't know I could like you more, Ezra. Well done. >> UCLA and Berkeley. Great greatest gift from government. >> I got rejected from Berkeley repeatedly. I got rejected from Berkeley uh when I applied first and then when I tried to transfer there but then I went to UCLA a bit too for a year. Uh but I I think of myself primarily as a banana slug. Um so that I think allowed me to go through a back door when I started blogging. Nobody thought of that as a career nor did I. Uh you know it sounded like something that would grow on your foot. Um, and there was one an amazing community around that of like really really excellent people who are are still like amazing figures today, right? You know, Matt Glacius was an early inspiration for me as a blogger because he was another college kid. Uh, you know, Andrew Sullivan was like one of the big bloggers of that era. Um, unfortunately Kevin Drum passed away uh, I think it was last year now, but but he was a a real figure in that. And so I think I was able to build my own sense of how to do my work and then got brought in repeatedly to to institutions in this kind of protected space where I was doing something they wanted, right? Blogging and in in different formats and later podcasting and and so they come in and they sort of like almost like aqua hire me to to do this thing they didn't really know how to do yet. And that gave me a lot of freedom that that not everybody else had. Um so Tyler Cowan, an early blogger and a big influence on me. Um, so one I think the blogersphere I I still in some ways think a lot of who I am is formed by that. Uh, and then you know the other thing that I think has always been very important in my own work is that I'm actually a reporter. I'm not just I don't think of myself primarily as a a takes writer. And I think something that that keeps my work pretty fresh is that it's not just my voice over and over and over again. And for that I give credit to a bunch of my early editors. Uh, you know, Mike Tamasi, who I remember at the American Prospect, I I came and brought him one of my early features and he looked at me and he said, "This isn't even a piece of journalism." I was like, "What do you mean?" That was such a mean thing to say to me. He's like, "There's no other voices in it. It's just you." And that made a big impression on me. And so, you know, my podcast is, you know, primarily interviews with other people. My columns, you'll they're not literally all interview based, but they are heavily. If you look at um Abundance, the book, it's a lot of reporting, much of it on the ground in different places. I think it is people think so much about what they're telling other people and whether other people are listening and are they like you know how do they get in the algorithm. I think the first question is how to actually be interesting and have something that is worth saying. Um what kind of work are you doing that you're bringing to the audience? Why what service are they hiring you to do? Because nowadays there's so much political opinion out there, so much writing, so many voices. you really got to be able to offer something that other people aren't offering. And and for me, a lot of the time that comes from other people, right? It comes from being able to kind of, you know, interview and show them at their best. But but yeah, that that sort of mixture of blogging is a kind of constantly iterative learning in public, you know, um opinionated and then merged with like a real commitment to reporting, which I think I still have. >> Any thoughts on um you have two kids. any thoughts or learnings or advice uh to young dads on how to be a good father or your learnings as a father and being trying to be a good a good partner. This will sound um not cliche but like a little I think uh something but parenting yourself is hard. It's harder than parenting your kid. And what I mean by that is that it's really important first and foremost how you show up for your kid. How good of a parent you are going to be is going to have a lot to do with are you sleeping and if you're not sleeping are you taking your care care of yourself in other ways. Are you feeling good in your marriage, you know, with your partner if you are married? Are you feeling good at your work? Are you working out at all? And a lot of the the place where parenting gets really tough is when you have poorly parented yourself and now you are poorly parenting your child because you're pissed off because you're a distraction from what you really want to be doing because you can't give them your attention. And I don't say this from the mountaintop where it never happens to me. I say this from the place where it happens to me all the time where I'm like, I'm just being a bad parent today. Like not terrible. I'm not beating my kids, but I'm, you know, mentally checked out and I'm tired and I'm not being, you know, being able to be there with them. >> And I I just often see parents not do a good job, not even sort of realize like they're part of the equation, too. And that, you know, in the same way that how their kid responds to their parenting is going to depend on how has a kid eaten recently, have they slept, like what's going on in their lives, how they parent is going to depend on how they're eating, how they're sleeping, whether they're working out, whether they're going out on a date with, you know, the person they love or finding a person they love or whatever it might be. Um, parenting yourself is hard. You got to you got to pay attention to it. Your your your kids, first of all, need you to be present. Is it difficult, and I struggled with this my whole career, between being great at what you do and having your own relevance and your own economic security, which your family benefits from, and quite frankly, just being [ __ ] exhausted or just not having the time to be a very engaged partner or or father. Is that something you struggle with? >> Yeah, all the time. I mean, I one of my worst feelings is feeling like the podcast often gets the best of me and sometimes my family gets the worst. Uh, and they get me at the end of the day when I'm tired, when I'm, you know, worn down, when the caffeine is worn off. Um, I feel like I spend so much time running from my own exhaustion, right? The thing that I feel the most often that I fight the hardest is feeling tired. And uh, and it's also just a part of my life, right? there's not some way of doing what I'm doing or the number of things I'm doing and not having to wake up earlier than my body would like to. You know, there isn't a way to do it all. And so, just accepting that you're in you're going to be in triage all the time. And, you know, sometimes you will flex too far in one direction and you'll have to flex back for a while. I mean the first six months of this year with abundance kind of blowing up and you know asking more of me than I had quite anticipated that was stress on my home life that was stress on my wife that was stress on my kids and so at a certain point um some what is it it's July now uh so I think really right about the beginning of July I just called a full 4 month stopped any work travel and like for three or four months um I'm just a hard. No. And I I'm still working, right? I'm not disengaged, but I I I just find sometimes I have to do that. Like I I pushed really hard in that direction. But that can just attain its own momentum after that. And you just are doing it and doing it and doing it and everything you do spins off more, you know, options and panels and you should come here and can you come talk to the policy school and so I gave it everything I had for a while and then kind of full stop. Um, and now I'm focusing back on, you know, uh, my call, my podcast, my family life, my friendships, my partnership, my health. Uh, you got to kind of there's seasons for things and but you got to know when one season is ending and another is starting. >> Yeah. And we always end with the same question. Um, you got a time machine, you go back, you're popped in front of you, your 25-year-old self, and you have 15 seconds. What do you say to your 25-year-old self? my 25-year-old self. So, I'd be in DC. It's really hard because I like I'm I'm happy with how my life has turned out. There'sn't a lot here that I want to change. There's not a lot I think I could have told my 20 because advice is so advice is [ __ ] It's all execution, right? We all know to a large extent what we should >> Isn't that the answer? Wouldn't your 25-year-old >> I mean, I would have invested in Tesla. >> Buy Tesla. Yeah. Buy some Bitcoin response. >> Yeah, that's my I think that is that would have changed that would have changed a lot. You just would have said the word Bitcoin over 15 times. I love that. All right. >> Look, man, there's a lot I could have told myself that I wouldn't have been able to put into practice, but that I would have. >> There you go. Ezra Klein is a New York Times columnist and the host of the Ezra Klein show. Previously, he was the founder, editor, and chief, and then editor at large of Vox. By the way, there's a lesson in there. I find that the most relevant people doing the best work have the shortest bios. Uh Ezra joins us from New York. as I'm a huge fan and uh I just uh let me this will be the third time I reference it. When you read your stuff, when you listen to your pods, when you when you read your books, it's just clear. And I think this is a really important lesson for young people, you can tell you just work really [ __ ] hard that you bring it, that you show up, you run through the tape, successes in the last 10%. You just hear it and feel that you are laboring over sentences and words and factchecking and very much appreciate the role model you said for professionals just in terms of you just quite frankly my brother you just bring it really appreciate you and your work thanks Scott it's incredibly kind of you to