But I think it's palpably grotesque to deny that there has been a a world return of fascism and it didn't begin yesterday. And so then, as you say, if we're confronted with all these empirical signs of fascism, and again, one can disagree about exactly what fascism is, but the the signs, no matter whose definition you take, are overwhelming. It doesn't matter whose definition you take, the signs are overwhelming. They're there. And so why why do we not accept that? And I think that has to do with the second part, right? Because if you accept that it's fascism, then you have to organize. Because the way that you beat fascism is is with coalitions. The way that you beat fascism is that you get to a majority by including people who don't agree about everything. [Music] Tim, where does this podcast find you? I'm in Toronto. We were excited to have you on the pod because uh your book on tyranny is a 20point guide to dictator proofing yourself which you published shortly after Trump was elected the first time around and it's a New York Times bestseller again. Can you point to one or two moments in history that most mimic where we are now uh and who reminds you most of Trump and what it tells us about where things might be headed? I want to start the answer by saying that it's important to think about history as something that opens us up rather than closes us down. The danger of thinking about history in terms of analogy or repeating or even rhyming as Mark Twain said is that that then puts you out of the story. And the whole point of history is that humans are in the story. There isn't any overwhelming objective factor which means things have to go in a certain direction. That said, um, we're I, as I think about it, we're in a we're in a kind of second globalization. And the moment is much like the 1890s to the 1920s in that suddenly the globe is united. People are overwhelmed. There new communication technologies. There are certain kinds of fears about demographics, um, about things changing too quickly, about not being in touch with your children and so on. And those anxieties can be used by certain kinds of politicians who manage to combine um a view of the future with nostalgia for the past. So in general, I think it's it's 1890s to 1920s is pretty is pretty similar. As far as Trump, I don't think there is actually a perfect perfect analog. I mean, in my view, he's a fascist, but he's a different sort of fascist in that I think he cares in in an odd way. He cares much less about the community than the first round of fascists did. And unlike the first round of fascists, he's actually very concerned about personal wealth. Um, which what everyone wants to say about them was generally was generally not their case. So I don't I don't think there's a I don't think there's a perfect analogy for him, but it helps a lot to know the history of the 1920s and 1930s at this point. In a recent Substack post, you wrote that the current administration open quote invites a terror attack close quote. That's a bold statement. What did you mean by that? Um, I mean, I don't think it is actually. I think I think it's I think the opposite thesis would be very bold. Like the idea that the administration is doing what it can to prevent a terror attack is is absolutely grotesque, right? And so one way to consider the thesis is to consider the antithesis. And like we would all like to think that we have a government which is doing the normal things to prevent abnormal catastrophes. And I'm afraid that's just obviously not the case. When you put Cash Patel in charge of the FBI, when you put Tulsi Gabbard in charge of uh intelligence, when you put Pete Hexath in charge of defense, when you fire the head of the NSA for no reason except that Laura Loomer told you to do so, when you demoralize the ranks of all the security agencies, when you fire the mid-level people under dubious pretexts, these are all things that make it much easier to attack the United States. And I think you just have to be you have to be looking away pretty determinedly not to notice it. So that's that's what I mean when I say they're inviting a terror attack. There is ambient danger all of the time. And what they're choosing to do is is to ignore the actual danger. This is a second part. And to focus their eyes and ours on invented things, right? So suddenly like Tesla is a center of terrorism or you know Al Salvador and guys in Maryland are the focus of terrorism. And when you create when you create big lies around stuff like that, when you focus the energy on stuff like that, it actually turns the head of the media. It turns the head of your own institutions in such a way that you're much more vulnerable to the real threats that are out there. Do you think that also the reduction in soft power whether it's cancelling US aid or just generally kind of declaring war it feels like on everyone all at once that that also increases the likelihood that maybe not even of a terrorist attack but somebody decides to say they're so distracted maybe I'll invade Taiwan or I'll start setting off more missiles over the coast of Japan from North Korea. If this sounds like a comment phrases a question it is. So let me just say the comment. I I would argue that we're every world leader is thinking if this is a time to distract a divided and and and distracted America, it would be now. Yeah. No, I want to affirm both the major and the minor thesis in that in that comment. And I'm happy to treat your comments as questions. I mean, the minor thesis is that when we are when we make enemies unnecessarily, we are encouraging terrorism. So, it's not just that we're putting our defenses down, which we're clearly doing. It's also that we're inviting the offense, which we're also clearly doing. I mean, one can't one can't be precise about what combination of motives is going to spark people. But we have a combination now of Trump giving permission, Trump and the people around him giving permission to at least right-wing domestic terrorists because he is pardoning them, right? Um, and creating an atmosphere which normalizes their behavior. Many of their views are now held inside the White House. But he's he's also randomly alienating almost everybody at the same time and the around the world and the people he isn't alienating like the Russians aren't going to stop operations inside the United States just because he's trying to be friends with them. Right. So it's it's really it's a cocktail um of of all the worst things at the same time. And then to pick up your your your major thesis, yeah, this is also true at the level of conventional national security. What the Trump people are doing is draining American power out of the system because the international system, our power in the international system depended upon, among other things, relationships, trust, alliances, um reliability, treaties. We're we're breaking all of those things, thereby draining our own power out of the system, but everybody else's power remains. Everybody else is now more relatively powerful with respect to us. And so, of course, they can now afford to think about interventions and adventures which they wouldn't have been able to think about before. I agree completely. If the risk profile has gone up for the US and we're sort of have high blood pressure or incredibly high cholesterol, meaning we're more prone to some sort of exogenous event or opportunistic infection, who do you think one is there or are there winners and who are they from America's distraction and what feels like own? Yeah, wonderful question. The the most obvious winner of course is Vladimir Putin and Russia. The Russians started a war that they couldn't win without American assistance. And then for the last year or so in 2024, they made it very plan plain that their their game plan such as it was was to keep the war going in the hope and expectation that Donald Trump would return to power. And now that Donald Trump is in power, he's conceded on behalf of the Ukrainians, so to speak, pretty much every major issue, territory, NATO, Russia's legitimacy in the international system, trade with Russia. He's conceded all of these things without asking for any concession from Russia, and meanwhile pressured the Ukrainians to take a much worse deal that even the military facts on the ground would dictate that they should take. And in general, Trump and the people around him treat Russia as though it were a great power, a superpower, a power on on the scale of the world, which it really isn't unless you make it so. And the Russians are of course eating this up and they're extremely happy about it. So there's that. That's one that one set of winner would be Russia. But I would say that Russia overlaps with another set of winners, which is transnational oligarchs in general. You can think of Putin as as a leader of Russia, but you can also think of him as part of a clan of transnational oligarchs, which would include South Africans who are very important in the United States, such as Peter Teal or Elon Musk or David Sachs, right? That that Putin is kind of in that tribe that Trump wants to join. Like Trump really wants to be a rich transnational oligarch. He's just never quite made it. And now with like two chances of being president of the United States, he can finally make it into that club. But in general, those folks are doing a lot better. The people who want not just American state power not really to work or to apply to them, but want state power around the world generally not to work or not to apply to them. Those people in general are definitely winners out of this. And a third set of winners um would seem to be at first glance the people that we call I think wrongly populists or you know far-right people um far-right extremists, quasi fascists or fascists. they would seem to be the winner because Vance and Trump are explicitly on their side. But that said, so long as they're democratic elections, the fact that Vance and Trump are on your side is probably not going to help you. It's going to hurt you. Again, so long as there are democratic elections, I feel as if Democrats were just such wimps. We're afraid to call this fascism when every key component or definition of fascism perfectly fits in my view what is going on right now. demonization of immigrants, refusal to condemn political violence, extreme nationalism. It's literally, it feels like this is the definition of fascism. And yet on the left, we're afraid to use these words for fear like we have this need to empathize and and take the higher ground. Can you point to a point in history or best practices around when a democracy moves towards some sort of authoritarianism or oligarchy or fascism? What can you point to and what lessons can we take from who's been most effective and what are the components of that push back when when a country has flirted with fascism and then has been pulled back from the brink? What are the components of pulling back or pushing back? Let me break that question down into two parts because I think there there are two two things that work together that help us to answer it. the the the so the question why aren't we allowed to say fascism I think is directly related to the answer so as you say it's patently obvious that there that there has been a return of fascism around the world for quite some time I started writing about it more than 10 years ago using the word and then as you quite rightly say that one can agree or disagree about how big it is and just who exactly is in it but I think it's palpably grotesque to deny that there has been a a world return of fascis ism and that didn't begin yesterday. And so then as you say, if we're confronted with all these empirical signs of fascism and again one can disagree about exactly what fascism is, but the the signs, no matter whose definition you take, are overwhelming. It doesn't matter whose definition you take, the signs are overwhelming. They're there. And so why why do we not accept that? And I think that has to do with the second part, right? Because if you accept that it's fascism, then you have to organize. and you have to organize with people that you might not necessarily like. Denying that it's fascism is a purely academic pursuit. Right? If you deny it's fascism, what you can do is you can sit at your office and you can edit the volume about how it's not fascism. That's just about my colleagues. But more broadly speaking, if you deny it's fascism, then you can imagine, okay, the normal the normal pathways of politics are going to work. Somehow things are going to self-correct. The moment you accept that it's fascism, you have to organize. You have to take action. You have to organize. And you have to organize with people who agree with you and people who don't completely agree with you. And this is part of the answer now to the question because the way that you beat fascism is is with coalitions. The way that you beat fascism is that you get to a majority by including people who don't agree about everything. It has to be a clear majority because they're they're ruthless and also they they may control aspects of the state. So the way that you pull back is that you get a coalition, right? This is Poland in 2023, for example. The way that you pull back is you get a coalition which can win an election. But this goes to the Democrats. I take I take the point about the Democrats, but it's very important. I think your analysis is also correct. But it's very important for us who are not activists in the Democratic party to to remember that we can't do we we have to not make the same mistake that they're mistake that they're making. Like the fact that they are inactive or they don't use a word is not an excuse for us to be inactive and not use the word. We have to create all possible bridges, pageantry, opportunities for those of them who want who want to make a move. So the more civil society activism there is, the more protesting there is, the more chance there is that you pulled the establishment party or important elements of it in your direction. So they have a role to play, but there but the only way for them to play that role is for them to be drawn by things that other people are in fact organizing. The town halls are a good example of this. It was great that many that several Democrats go out to these town halls, but they didn't organize those things themselves, right? That had to come from that had to come from somewhere else. We'll be right back after a quick break. So, uh, if I'm being an alarmist or paranoid, it doesn't mean I'm wrong. And I want you to tell me if I'm wrong, but I look at 1920s Germany, thriving gay community, appreciation for academics, the arts, a progressive culture, welcomed immigrants, an economic shock, a move towards fascism, and then something that really struck me. This there was a 10-second Tik Tok where a guy just said, "Remember that Awitz was in Poland." And I look at what's going on here. And when you start rounding up people, it takes a diff on a different complexion. But I would argue we're one economic shock away in the US from accelerating what we already I would term as rounding up people for the wrong tattoo and shipping them off to another country such that we don't have to hold to the same standards of due process or humanity. One, am I being an alarmist believing that we're actually not as far as people would like to think from a really, really ugly situation? And does this have echoes of different different situations? Do you see another nation at this point in history and where you know that that helps kind of draw or fill in the blanks around where this is going? Mhm. Let me let me zoom way back out and then let me zoom in. So the comparison to Germany in the first third of the 20th century can be very helpful in the following way. The 20th century as your question already suggests could have been Germany's century. There was an awful lot working in their favor. Um there was a very rich and heterogeneous civil society. There were um the best scientists and engineers probably in the world active before the early 30s in Germany. There was a a flawed but nevertheless plausible parliamentary system. Um there was an economy which um pound-for-pound was overtaking everybody else's. Right? So the United States was going to be a big deal in the 20th century. But there's a there's a way in which the 20th century could have belonged to Germany. And they did the one thing in my view, the one thing which could have prevented that, which was have someone who was the most extreme version of an extreme party come to power with the connivance of business elites and with the misunderstanding or willful misunderstanding of conservatives that somehow he could be controlled. Right? That was the one thing and they did it. And so when you look at the US and the 21st century, one one way to look at this is the 21st century probably should belong to the US. We there are all sorts of positive things. There's the technology, the civil society, the universities, etc., etc. Um, but there is one thing we can do to prevent that from happening and we seem to be doing that one thing. Okay, now let me zoom in. So the big thing about Awitz in Poland, it's it's important. I would I have to contest that formulation because there wasn't a Poland at the time. By the time that Achvitz was established um on the on the on the on the on the territory of a Poland what had been a Polish army base at Oshen, Poland had been destroyed. But this this helps to make the point just in a slightly more subtle way which is important. The killing of Jews in Germany was not didn't happen in Germany. It it happened in zones which which the Germans decided were stateless in zones where the law didn't apply. And so that could be a concentration camp. The definition of a concentration camp is a lawless zone. But it could also be a broad swath of territory to the east where the Germans said we've destroyed the state. Whether it's Poland or the Soviet Union, we've destroyed the state. And so the rules don't apply. That for me is the dangerous thing, right? Not exactly another country, although that's important. But the idea of statelessness, the notion that what we're going to do is we're going to decide that certain people are beyond the protection of the state in general. Once you do that, then it becomes much easier to ship them away and it becomes much easier to kill them. It's chilling. You had mentioned something about u I forgot the word you used the cooperation between Hitler and the industrial base or corporations or corporate leadership. And I don't think enough people know the history around the alliance between I think it was loosely corporations as said Hillary if you crush the trade unions we'll support you and then it just ran away from them. And I see real parallels here now and that is I'm not exaggerating. I've probably talked to a dozen Fortune 500 CEOs who are just so angry and upset and think what Trump is doing is so wrong and not a goddamn one of them has spoken out because they're they think short-term my obligation is to shareholders and the easiest thing to do is bend a knee, send a million dollars to the inauguration committee and not speak out. And this feels eerily similar to the same type of enablement or loose cooperation or conspiracy between corporate leaders in Germany. Any thoughts on whether there are parallels there? That's such an interesting question and it, you know, I I feel like just pivoting a little bit, Scott. This is really a moment when it would help if Americans listened to other people. So, like it's all well and good and I'm glad to do it for us to for for us to be sitting here and talking about historical par parallels, but there are actually lots of German, you know, businessmen and women today and German foundations who act on the basis of what they think they learned in the 1930s. And so, I mean, maybe I'm wrong and something like this has already happened, but there probably would be much to be said for some kind of summit precisely among American and German CEOs to talk about the question that you've just asked. Um because you know there there are plenty of people now in Germany who are running corporations extremely well um but who have these kinds of lessons on their mind all the time and that's also for me a a broader lesson if you'll just forgive me you know to extend the pivot it's a broader lessons lesson about resistance in the US now in general there are a lot of folks from Ukraine or Poland um you know successful cases or even people from from from mixed cases uh like Slovenia or Hungary who have experience that is really relevant to this moment. And I feel like we don't we don't do enough to reach out to them and to get that relevant experience. We tend to be trapped in our own exceptionalism and say, "Okay, something's happened." Um, it's it's never happened to anybody before. What could we possibly learn? And then we spend that moment obsessing about ourselves and then we move on to the next to the next moment. But yeah, but getting getting back to your question there there were sort of two stages to this. The first is that you think you think it's okay because he's against the labor unions. And that really was the problem the first time around that that German businesses were against dem I mean this is a little bit stronger but they were against democracy because they thought in democracy the labor unions were too strong. And so that's not exactly the case now but it's something that CEOs should be thinking about. Am I being drawn towards something because I think these are the ones who are harder on the trade unions than the than the other ones. And then the second move which you also already see is the solicitation of specific companies um on the premise that they can make money under this regime in a way they couldn't have made it before like Avitz to use something you mentioned earlier. German companies are brought to Ashvitz on the principle that look there's going to be cheap controlled labor there's access to water you know we can do chemical manufacturing here this is a good site it's going to be profitable and of course there's also money to be made by by rounding up American migrants there's money to be made by creating a surveillance state and so particular companies are being recruited into that so yeah there's I mean capitalism doesn't push obviously one way or another right like it's wrong to think that capitalism automatically generates fascism. It's certainly also wrong to think that capitalism automatically generates democracy. Um the the people who are the people who are in charge of companies are historical actors and we know not just from the history of Germany but from the history of coups and counter coups in general that how the leaders of industry react matters a great deal to how things turn out. So we've been talking a lot about Trump. any historical reference uh or analogies explaining or or comparing uh similar situations to what's going on with uh Elon Musk, wealthiest man in the world, uh the seizure of what I would argue is u power that's not constitutional at the approval of the president and just I haven't seen anything like this in my lifetime. What what historical references can you ground Elon Musk in, if any? Number one, it's I mean, we've been talking about the 20s and the 30s, and the um the Marxist analysis of fascism back then was that it had to do with the wealthiest of people, which it wasn't true. I mean, as we've talked about, certainly certainly capitalists played a role in the rise of Hitler to power and then certain capitalists profited in certain ways, which are worth remembering from Nazi rule, but it wasn't actually the oligarchs of the world, right? There was no overall plan of global capitalism to bring bring people like Hitler to power. 100 years later, there is. That's that's the ironic thing. like 100 years later there we do have people like Elon Musk who do have huge amounts of global power and who are quite literally trying to bring fascists to power around the world and maybe it's you know maybe it's for reasons of ideology maybe it's for reasons of convenience because they don't like state power and state because state power can regulate their companies but we actually now do have a thing which was I think talked about 100 years ago but not real and now is real but not talked about which is you know not that all oligarchs are fascists I mean they're oligarch arch all over the place politically, but we do have fascist oligarchs and we have fascist promoting oligarchs. We have oligarchs who are promoting fascism. So that's not exactly historical precedent. It's more like historical irony that we have the thing now. I gave a lecture a couple of weeks ago in New York at the public library about um about paganism, which was um you know a little bit bold on my part, but it and a little bit a little bit humorous because I think we need humor. But I think the kinds of politics we're talking about where people worship a a leader, that's fascist, right? The way that people worship Elon Musk is fascist. But the the the way that Musk and Trump and so on operate by giving out gifts, the sort of everyday corruption or if you want to put it in an anthrop an anthropologically neutral way, a giftgiving culture where politics is reduced to there's a chieftain at the center and the chieftain has the authority to give gifts and expects gifts in return. I think there's a reason why that's not familiar historically or, you know, personally to you or to me. And that's because that's essentially a, you know, pre-Christian or a pre-state way of doing things. They're chieftains. They come and go. Their power depends upon charisma plus the ability to give gifts. I think that's that's where we are. And it's an almost prehistorical way of doing politics, which is why history flails a little bit when you when you try to find historical analogies for it. We'll be right back. Support for the show comes from Adobe Express. With social media, email, and a growing variety of online ads, there are more touch points than ever between your business and its customers. Adobe Express is here to make sure your smallest touch point is as polished, impactful, and onbrand as the biggest. The brand kits in Express make following design rules a breeze. Templates for flyers, banners, emails, social posts, and more have all the professional quality Adobe is known for. And generative AI that's safe for business gives everyone the ability to make images, rewrite texts, and produce effects using simple text prompts. You can create campaigns, resize ads with a click, and even translate content automatically. Work that used to take weeks now takes minutes or even seconds. Adobe Express also makes collaboration, approval, and sharing easier, so any team can become a welloiled content machine. And if you're leading your team, you can monitor it all from your admin console. That means you have one centralized place where you can ensure that every asset is right and that everyone is synced. Go from fragmented to businessfriendly. Switch to the quick and easy app to create onbrand content. Adobe Express. Learn more at adobe.com/express/business. True story. I've actually used Adobe Express and I was genuinely impressed with how easy it is to create professional content that you can immediately push out. [Music] We're back with more from Timothy Snder. So, something I've just been unable to wrap my head around and I'm rather than just attacking them for for these actions or these g gestures, Steve Bannon and Elon Musk in my view purposely gave Nazi salutes. And I'm trying to wrap my head around what are the objectives there. Is it just to show a certain level of macho and thumbming your finger in the face of convention? Is it an attempt to rally a group of people around a fascist ideology? I'm just curious what ran through your head when once, not once but twice, a person who's a senior adviser to the president, the wealthiest man in the world, gave what looked like to me Nazi salutes. What when you saw that? What ran through your head? I'm going to I'm going to start in a place which I think is more interesting than my head. I was um not long after that I was I was in Berlin and I was talking to uh a a very courageous and consistent left-wing organizer friend. We're at a bar. They're having a drink and and he said I think he's right. He said, you know, eventually they always do it. Like they have to do it. And I knew what he meant. He meant Musk and the Hitler, you know, the the the that salute. I want to take a step sort of below your question about what they're thinking or what the calculations are. I think maybe something more fundamental than that, which is that they like to do it. It makes them feel like they are who they are when when they do it. My friend's point was that there's something in their the shape of their lives which eventually leads them to give that salute. And I think we shouldn't discount that and think about it just in terms of the signal they're sending or where it goes politically or what it means to you know people like me. I think that that's a big part of it that like that per performing with your body in a way which is which is unambiguous which is not reject rejecting reason which is calling forth a similar salute from other people and since we know the history is also referring to right the very heart of fascism the last time around. I think that the sheer pleasure of doing that is probably close to a complete explanation. I I think you know the secondary thing would be would be the normalization of it that you're trying to break all the taboss and of course when you do it you then you know this is the 21st century part you do it then you deny it you say it was just a joke you say it never happened whatever is a wave yeah exactly yeah you just but but what you're what you're after though is you're ch you're trying to change normality right you're trying to turn every taboo into a joke and you know the taboos around liberalism rule of law democracy are are built on notions of human decency the protection of the private sphere, respect, truth, and so on. And so, you're trying to turn those taboss into a joke. I think that's the secondary bit. So, you were at Yale and you moved to Toronto. Um, why why have you moved to Canada? Uh, I mean, there's a there's a baseball team that plays downtown. Um, I'm I'm theoretically a French speaker and u they speak French here, at least in this in this country. Um I was there like there the major considerations had to do with you know family things which I'm not particularly keen to talk about you know so lifesty it's a lifestyle move not ideological we don't need any deeper I mean if any no I mean there's this weird timing thing now where I'm kind of caught in historical conjuncture and feel a little helpless about that but I had already moved to Toronto I'd been rec I've been recruited for three years actually more like 10 enough said no one needs an excuse to move to Toronto it's a wonderful city I moved London. It's and it's been great and it it it's neither here nor there in terms of politics and I think that's what you're saying. Yeah. I moved here for reasons which had to do with time of life essentially. Um and now that I am here I'm going to continue to do you know what I what I can. I tend to think that people like a lot if I have anything views to say it has to do with experiences outside the United States but I'm going to make you know really sure that I also spend a lot of time inside the United States. um this things have not turned out the way that I hoped they would turn out but now that they have turned out this way you know now I have to stay engaged so I will so it almost feels sort of inconsequential or somewhat trivial compared to the things we've been talking about but these tariffs sort of declaring war on everyone all at once and I'm I can tell how old I'm getting I'm totally fascinated with World War II and I'd like to I said everything against the context of World War II and I think of you know Hitler's big mistake was essentially declaring war on everyone all at once specifically declaring war on Russia when he didn't need to. Help me understand if we can understand these tariffs in an individual and what analogies or what historical context there is for this sort of economic multifront declaration of war against everyone all at once. Well, before I mean before we get to that, I'm just going to say something much more much more boring, which which is that whatever the motive of tariffs are, they do have an objective effect. And that objective effect we're not actually really feeling yet in the United States. The the knockoff effects on supply chains are just now starting to take hold and they will be felt more and more severely in coming weeks and months. So whatever Trump thinks he's doing, um, one lesson of the 1920s and 1930s, of course, is that if you if you wreck the economy by way of tariffs, you're setting the stage for more radical things to happen. So, as far as attacking everybody all at once, my my take is that they think that the way power works is by way of these kind of one-off demonstrations of like masculine barking where you do like you you bluster like you take you you know you you stick out your chest and you bluster and you use lots of big words and stuff and then the notion is that the other person makes concessions and you're better off in the end. And I think they think that's how American businesses will react to tariffs because everybody will look for a carve out and in looking for a carve out going back to your earlier question they will then be you know less likely to speak up against the regime and they think that other countries will do the same thing that other countries are by definition weaker than the US and so therefore they have to immediately react. I I think it's I think that's the theory. It's a it's I think it's it's a dumb theory of course because you end up minimizing US power because no one takes you seriously including they don't take you seriously also when you propose a remedy right you're never you're never trusted again in the same way but it's also a dumb theory because it just overestimates the scale of US power and this gives me occasion to say something I wanted to say and forgot in response to your earlier question I mentioned R when you asked who does this benefit I mentioned Russia and I I mentioned oligarchs but the big winner the big long-term winner is obviously China because what what we have done is we've said to the world, hey, look, China is a more reliable trade partner than we are, right? So, we've bailed Russia out in the short term in Ukraine and we've bailed China out in the long term on the scale of the world. Recognizing none of us have a crystal ball, are you comfortable making any sort of predictions as to what you think the likely scenarios are in America over the next uh 2 3 years? There's so many variables. There's so many things bouncing up against one another. It's like like if you think about different historical moments like there are moments where more things are possible than usual. So like after the first world war, what I'd like to think of as the the bandwidth of possibility was just much broader, right? Things like Linen and and and things like Hitler were possible then and they wouldn't have been possible at other times because you'd had this globalization with its hopes and then with its collapse around a major war and now you know now we're in this other globalization which is also facing its collapse. Um the major, you know, the war isn't as major. the Russo Ukrainian war is a horribly great is a horribly you huge war but it's not on the scale of the great war. Um but it's also facing its collapse in the person of of somebody like Trump. And so there's just things are possible now that weren't possible before. I I worry a great deal about an exogenous shock like the terror attack that we were talking about earlier and what that would set off. And I think it's it's we have to kind of internalize that possibility because we have to recognize that in the scenarios we're talking about it's it's almost I mean you can't be certain about anything historically but it's as certain as you can be that Trump Vance Musk would treat such an exogenous event as a reason to try to finish off the republic um completely. I I another thing I worry about is that because the Trump people overestimate the power of bluster and the power of the United States federal government in general because they don't really understand that institutions institutions don't work just on the basis of like charisma and giving orders that they're going to get us to a situation where federal institutions are going to break down or that federal institutions and state the institutions of the 50 states are going to be in irreconcilable clashes. I worry about that a great deal. I think that's a scenario that has been understated that that institutions of the federal government will just stop working and that states will then begin to wonder what we're getting out of all of this and that there will be some kind of crisis within our own federal system. That's that's I guess the sec a second scenario that I worry about in addition in addition to like the obvious thing that we've been talking about the whole time which is Trump Musk um that millia seeking to somehow get around the rule of law and you know these and the things are married to each other. You can get around the rule of law you know you can you can change the nature of the federal government but what you can't do is then predictably know what's going to come next and it isn't all internationally or nationally going to be in your favor. You can, you know, you can you can slam the door on democracy and you can, you know, you can break everything inside the house of democracy, but then when you walk out into that brave new world that you're created, it's not like the weather is always going to be beautiful and in your favor. So, I apologize for jumping around, but you're one of the leading historians on Ukraine. And I'd be remiss not to ask before you go, the optimist looking at the glass half empty. Is this an opportunity that sort of Uncle Sam is not only inconsistent but crazy and can no longer be dependent upon? And is this an opportunity for Europe to actually become a union $19 trillion collective economy versus two trillion in Russia and provide Ukraine with the support such that they can continue to push back on Russia or am I being naive? That's the one rational hope. And if you know, regardless of whether there's a ceasefire or whether there's a quote unquote peace deal, I really hate the way that the the noun deal is now being attached to everything as though, you know, deal making is the highest human achievement. But regardless of whether on paper there's, you know, some kind of accord, the the threat of Russia and and the the the possibility or the reality of Russia making war on Ukraine or other European countries is going to be very real and eminent into the indefinite future, at least until Putin loses power, which means that Europe Europe has to respond in some way if it wishes to exist. Because the attack on Ukraine was also an attack on the broader principles of the existence of the European Union. Namely, that there is a post-imperial way of doing politics, that one can share sovereignty rather than violate sovereignty. That you can you you can have bureaucratic uh boring ritualistic bureaucratic iterative relationships as opposed to as opposed to marshall military destructive relationships and so on. That and and the Russians are very explicit about this. The whole Russian the Russian doctrine of foreign policy is that the EU is an artificial creation which has no right to exist because in fact the only thing that matters are empires and a multipolar world and so on. So if they want to exist they have to step up with respect to Ukraine. I would add to that that I think the EU only exists by enlarging. that has to be part of its process as well. And I realize it's complicated inside various countries and so on, but a European Union which had Great Britain and Ukraine as members would would be an even larger, more secure and more interestingly internally diverse economic unit than the current European Union. So, we only have you for a couple more minutes. You've been very generous with your time. Just a kind of a lightning round here. What are the biggest risks we're not paying attention to and what are you most optimistic about? I'm optimistic about American protests. I'm optimistic about people who haven't protested before who are protesting now. I'm optimistic about or hopeful is a better word about elected representatives who are actually talking about about the way the world actually is. Um I'm I'm I'm I'm hopeful I'm hopeful about Europe. I think this a set of European leaders um mon starmer merits uh in Poland uh donatus that's that's I mean I don't agree with all of them about everything of course but I think as a set of European leaders that's a pretty good quartet and a better one than one has had for for quite a long time at least on the kinds of issues that we've been talking about European security and and and dur and durability um I'm hopeful about I'm hopeful because of the kinds of categorical or conceptual conversations that we've been having because I really believe that you can't you can't organize and resist without conceptual work and um it it's it's hopeful to me that the people who I know who are organizers are getting maybe closer to the people who I know who are who who are conceptualizers and that the organizers are conceptualizing and some of the conceptualizing are organizing that that all gives me that all gives me some that gives me some hope. Uh you you're obviously hugely successful. So, you have what appears to be just a a great job and have carved out a really nice piece of the world for yourself. What advice would you give uh uh to your 25-year-old self and more generally advice to young men who want to someday be, you know, be be Timothy Snder and have a really cool job? I mean, that's a funny question because the only I mean, the only like I did gig work for six years after after I got my doctorate. Um, I stayed on I stayed on the market the entire time and I only got a job at Yale basically because of luck. I mean, I may have had some qualifications for it, but the job was only available because of luck. And so, if I find it hard to like say, "Oh, I've have some kind of like path that other people can follow." In general, you know, I I learned to do a bunch of other things. Resilience, perseverance, sounds you hung in there. Maybe. I think I mean I think having different things that you're pretty good at and not just one thing that you're very good at. If you're going to be an academic, be be international in in some way because that allows you to I mean I wouldn't have been able to do the things I did even before I had a job without being international in in some way. And I think being willing like if you're going to be an academic think always about what else you could do besides being besides having a tenure track job in in in universities. Yeah. I mean I don't know. I always had female bosses. I think that's, you know, that's I'm not sure if that's a piece of advice, but it's been it's been kind of helpful along the way. I mean, no, getting along with different sort of folks and um but yeah, I advice I don't know, man. I feel like I've been I feel like I've been really lucky and um and and and it's and times were tough when I was on the job market and they're they're a lot tougher now for all kinds of different reasons. I don't think people should get PhDs unless they really really love what they're doing because you're going to you have to you have to take a lot of time to do it and then once you do it, you have to love what you're doing enough to try to to to be aware that you might have to do it somewhere else besides the academy. So anyway, I you caught me off guard with that one. That's the best I could do. Timothy Snyder is a leading historian of authoritarianism Ukraine and Eastern Europe. He's the author of various books including on freedom, on tyranny, the road to unfreedom and bloodlands. After over two decades at Yale, he joined the University of Toronto's Monk School of Global Affairs who joins us from the great city of Toronto. I could do this for three hours. Really appreciate your time and an open invitation. Although I'm inviting myself, I want to come to Toronto. I want to do a mini I Love Canada tour and I would love to interview you on stage somewhere. I think your I think your your work has never been more relevant. I really appreciate your time, professor. I would I'd love to see you in person. So, when you're in Canada, you just drop a line and we'll do that 100%. Thanks again. [Music] [Music]