Welcome to an emergency episode of the Prop GPOD. I woke up this morning and I had an appetite to understand more about uh Israel's attack on Iran. And while we're all distracted understandably with ICE raids at Home Depot or this this big ugly tax bill, I found I had a difficult time getting good information on what had played or unfolded over the last 48 hours. So, I went to my go-to on all things Israel, Dan Senor, in his fantastic podcast, Call Me Back, and I thought I would really like to expose some of that information or insight to our listeners. So, I got Dan, a friend, on the phone this morning and agreed to come on. Anyways, this is our interview with Dan Senor, a leading expert on Israel in the Middle East. He's the co-author of the Genius of Israel and Startup Nation and the host of the Call Me Back Podcast. In a world in which the US is increasingly pulling back from world affairs, this is a 20-year trend basically, but but obviously it's what we're watching it right now, too. Leadership of the US, they say, "Okay, we're pulling back, but that country, Israel, that one's that one's with us, and look what they just did." And in a world in which we're pulling back our resources, it's good to know Israel is much better off doing things like it just did. the president is like softly supporting something versus watching what plays out and then supporting it very publicly and energetically is is the difference between a dazzling operation and one that stumbles. [Music] Dan, where does this podcast find you? New York City. Very much appreciate you on short notice doing this as we I don't want to say distracted but focused on ICE raids of Home Depot or this tax bill. I actually think the most important thing that's happened in the world in the last at least, you know, 72 hours is the I don't know if it's fair to say the Israeli attack in Iran, the preemptive attack, whatever the right nomenclature is that threads the needle here and doesn't give a false impression of what happened here, but I thought, who could I bring on to summarize and talk about uh summarize what happened, talk about the planning, talk about what it might mean for a reshaping of what feels to me like a totally a reconfiguration of the power dynamic in in the Middle East. Uh and I thought immediately thought of you and you were kind enough to immediately jump on. So let's start there. And also I just want to bring some sunshine. The the reason we're on the phone or doing this is a we're friends when we go back. But Nadavayal was an Israeli journalist was on your amazing uh podcast call me back this morning and I was so inspired by it that I thought okay I need I need Dan to come on and give us the cliff notes. Anyways, let's start with a summary of how what's unfolded over the last call it 48 hours. Well, uh on Thursday night, our time uh about, you know, about some somewhere between 2 and 4 1 and 4:00 a.m. uh Israel time, uh Israel launched a military operation. And to to call it a military operation understates it. A military operation is what Israel did against Hezbollah with its pager attack and then systematically taking out the Hezbollah leadership. This was an operation in the context of a larger war. So this is this is different than what Israel has dealt with over the last two years. It launched a war and we can get into what what the significance of this being a war rather than just a military operation. they launched uh what was the say the first phase of a war which basically involved I mean we still don't know all the details but what what from what I know so far is the two most important elements I say the three most important elements were one one the Israeli air force deployed what sounds like close to the entirety of the Israeli air force when Israel conducted a spectacular operation against Iran back in October of 24 my understanding is it is about a third of the Israeli air force this was this was close to all of the Israeli air force that um didn't actually initially take out Iran's uh nuclear sites, which is what everybody expected. Everybody expected if there was going to be an Israeli operation, Israel would go, you know, just start bombing the nuclear sites. It did not do that. What it did initially is it took out key personnel. It took out air defenses, which we'll get into, but it took out key personnel in the Iranian military apparatus. So it it took out the Iranian it killed the Iranian the chief of staff of the Iranian army. It took out the commander of the Iranian revolutionary guard corps. It took out the a whole bunch of nuclear scientist. It took out a whole close to about 20 I think of the most important players in the command and control structure at the most senior levels of the Iranian military. Now why was that so important? And but by the way when when many people were observing that that was what Israel was doing is the the observation was what they must be going for regime change. This is not just about taking out the nuclear infrastructure. This looks like regime change. It was not regime change. What it was was what Israel realized, which I've now learned, is that Iran has an extraordinary ballistic missile offensive capability. Right? We saw that in October of 24. Iran launched 300 projectiles against Israel. And while most of them did not get through, more got through than um Israel could get comfortable with. And Iran observed that. And the key to a successful ballistic missile offensive operation that Iran is capable of doing are two elements. One, having the equipment and two, having an efficient uh chain of command that can activate those, you know, that that military official who's at that particular ballistic missile launcher to hit launch. But in order for that to work seamlessly, you need the you need the whole system in place. You need the whole hierarchy. This one gets a phone call from that one. this one gets the alert from from this commander, from this officer, do this, do that. So what Israel did was said, the first thing we're going to do is we're going to completely disrupt their command and control. And so they took out the people who make the decisions and give the orders. And that that was, I think, one of the most important developments of Thursday night. Then they started taking out from the air a lot of the air defenses and then they obviously started to hit the nuclear sites. But it was first taking out key personnel and I I think when I said there were three very important elements. One was the air operation which was Thursday night 2 which we now know is the Mossad has been operating inside of Iran inside of Thrron for a long time. And some of that was just operatives and relationship development. And so Israel really had a sense for how um communications uh were occurring between different officials and how decisions were being made. But two, we now understand that Mossad/Israeli military intelligence had the capacity to go inside Iran and build um sort of mobile factories, if you will, like a mobile base from which to launch drones and what they call these quadcopters because why was this important, Scott? Because the one of the challenges Israel has is refueling. it cannot deploy all the air force assets it needs to deploy to Iran without having to deal with refueling. And one way to to um address that that um deficiency is to just create assets on the ground in Iran that you can activate from the ground in Iran against Iranian assets. So that that Mossad penetration of Iran and specifically Thrron was was another key uh piece of this. And the third obviously was the deception that was created between the Israeli and US governments leading up to this operation that led the Iranians to believe that there was a possibility of an Israeli strike, but there was no way it was going to happen anytime soon or at least not before Sunday. there wasn't imminent because Sunday was supposed to be the sixth round of these talks between the US and Iran and there were all these messages coming out of Washington that Israel may strike may not but there's no way they should do anything to undermine the talks. So the the Iranians had their their their own conception of of the Israeli threat and one of them was the U that Israel would not take action without blessing from the US and all the messaging coming out of Washington was tension and frustration with Israel because Washington did not want Israel to act before these talks had played out. And so I think those are the three key components. the air operation uh obviously taking out Iranian air defenses taking out Iranian personnel key personnel in the decision-making loop and the uh what what the intelligence community in Israel was able to do on the ground in Iran and then the third the deception uh coordinated between Washington and Jerusalem. So a lot there and I I want to u make some comments and have you comment on those comments. The thing that really struck me is I think it's fairly or it's public knowledge at this point that Iran's air defense systems have been defenistrated wiped out that what the Ayatollah has no clothes. The the Ayatollah is totally naked right now because Israel can just fly total range of straight in. Yeah. Right. Yeah. The thing that struck me or the new piece of information here is that the ground defenses are now down. What do I mean by that? that essentially the Mossad has so deeply penetrated uh the Iranian leadership structure that everyone is vulnerable that they can get to anyone and your your comment about they went in and took out eliminated I don't know what the term is killed maybe is the right word let's call it killed yeah killed these key individuals reminds me of Dunkirk and that is one of the most fortunate things uh to take place such that we could extract 400,000 military personnel from the beaches of Dunkirk and continued to fight the war. And had they been killed or taking, you know, taken prisoner, it might have been that might have been game over was that they didn't want to wake up Hitler and there was no one to give the order for the panzer tanks to actually move in to the beaches of Dunkirk and either take them prisoner or kill them. chain of command um broke down, if you will, that's hierarchical and if there's no one there to give the order to fire the surfaceto-air missiles or to fire ballistic missiles that that's all the time they need to take them out. I thought that was really striking and would you agree with were you surprised? I was shocked. It appears to me that the MOSAD is now on the ground uh penetrated, infiltrated, been absorbed, whatever it is, they are maybe your neighbor, but they they can get to anybody. And what was also very interesting to me was who they didn't kill. They didn't go after any of the political leaders. It seems to me that they're saying, "Be clear. We know where you live. We can get to you, but we're not looking for regime change. We're looking for you to step back quite frankly. Yeah. And dial down some of this rhetoric. Your thoughts? Yeah, I I think that's exactly right. If you go back, it's interesting. when Israel took out Ismael Haneia, who who was one of the two key leaders of Hamas internationally over a year ago, he was in he was in about a year ago, he was in um Iran, he was in Thran for the funeral of the president and uh and Israel conducted an operation in a like the equivalent of like the Blair House, Washington's Blair House, like a VIP uh residence for visiting dignitaries in the heart of Thrron at night. uh when this when Haneia was with the supreme leader a couple hours before he was with him like face to face and the the message should have been clear like we are everywhere for us it's just a matter of you know time of our choosing but it's not a matter of whether or not if if we have this capability and I think that message was doubly triply conveyed uh over the last few days which I think this was very specific which was we will take out nuclear assets we will take out military assets we will take out the the brains behind the nuclear weapons program, the top scientists, which they've done, and we will take out the military leadership, but we are not touching the Supreme Leader. We are not touching, as you said, the political leadership, and we're not touching the economic and oil infrastructure. The oil infrastructure, right? Exactly. So, so, so now you decide Iran. And by the way, in the like now, by by the time we're recording this, I mean, Israel's made even more progress. There is literally I spoke to someone in the Israeli security system early this morning who said there's we have total range to fly over and do whatever we want. Uh it doesn't mean that there aren't serious you know that this could not get bumpy. It could but ju just in terms of their ability to operate freely. So so now the message to Iran is your move. Now by the way this is part of the administr the US administration strategy is is okay. So we're giving you an option to come back to the table and negotiate this sort of like a good cop bad cop. we you know so so they they are they are making it clear that their primary goal Israel's primary goal is making clear is not regime change unless Iran really escalates. Now Ron so far seems to be escalating at least a little bit. We'll see where that goes. But I want to make one other point in terms of the psychological impact. If you are a mid-level or junior level officer in the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, and they're a talented group from what from what I speak when I speak to American military experts on on the Iranian military and Israeli uh and and Sunni Arab military experts about the Iranian military capa capabilities. The Iranian Revolutionary Guard Accords is a sophisticated operation. If you are a mid-level or junior level officer and you've been indoctrinated, you've been trained to believe over the last few years that Iran has extraordinary capabilities. It's developing something on the nuclear front and it was developing something on the nuclear front that was not only was scary to Israel but was scary to the United States and the West and you can see what like even President Mcron in France has said in in supporting what Israel is doing. I mean there was in it was a increasingly alarming situation what was happening with the nuclear program and you've been indoctrinated to believe that I mean just understand in Iran in downtown Tyran there's a clock there's a countdown to 2040 which is the clock when Israel is going to be destroyed there's a there's a so so there's a sense that it's just a matter of time before Iran destroys Israel Israel is this like weak actor that's just going to be wiped off the face of the earth if you're that mid-level or junior level officer in the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps. And you just watched what Israel did to Iran over the last three days. Not to mention what Israel did to to Hezbollah. Not to mention what you saw how quickly you saw the regime in another proxy state of Iran's Syria, the Assad regime crumble in 13 days after being in power for 53 years. you're if you're that junior level officer and you're watching all this and you've been told all along it's just a matter of time before we take out the Zionist the evil Zionist entity and we can just wipe him off the map and you just saw Israel take apart most of Iran's offensive and defensive capabilities you've got to be wondering what have I bought into here like you know and and it's interesting Scott if you listen to the rhetoric of the regime they are trying to make this about more than just Israel this is very interesting so they're saying if anyone else in the region is cooperating with Israel, if anyone else in the region is helping to defend Israel, if we're going to take out your bases, you know, they're making these these threats without any context. Like there's no signs that I mean, I think there are different countries that are in the know about it. But it's not clear that there have been this is an Israeli operation. Why are they saying that? Because they can't explain to their own people that Israel could do this. They've got to believe there's got to be some grand conspiracy because it it completely eclipses the notion that Iran had the upper hand here if Israel was able to do this and do it on its own. And so I I think there's a psychological aspect to what you're describing which is the mid and junior levels of the Iranian military are sitting here thinking possibly thinking do we really want to like keep fighting for this? What is this? Cuz cuz this looks pretty vulnerable right now. So the other thing that struck me and you know we have a lot of young men who listen to this podcast and I I always like to try and ground some of this in a learning and one of my learnings as I get older is that I bring a set of biases to the world and make me feel more comfortable. And one of my biases is that I believe the Trump administration is incompetent and really bad at what they do. And so when I saw this morning Secretary Rubio come out and say we in no way support or don't support or didn't weren't involved in the attacks on Iran and then I see Trump what feels like a couple hours later saying oh we're supportive of it. I immediately interpreted it as this is the bad news bearsers of geopolitics and defense not even coordinating their messaging and they didn't know what was going to happen and Israel just kind of said sorry boss we'll we'll do what we want and then Trump liked the macho in all of it and decided to try and take some credit from it and stand in the light of that macho and something I learned from your podcast and I have changed my mind and I want to be open to evolving is that you and your uh the Israeli journalists uh on your podcast convinced me there's just no way that the Americans weren't involved here. Israel is flying American planes and without without cooperation from the US, they wouldn't be able to repair those planes in a matter of weeks. that it just wasn't of course the Americans knew about this and that to the Trump administration's credit to pull off what I would argue is probably you know the the next Netflix doc that's going to be out in 12 months after the Hezbollah pager docs hit the you know hit the hit the streamers this was a brilliant you don't call it a military operation whatever first salvo in a war whatever you want to call it this was brilliant years in the making coordination stunning that the US to their credit engaged in a massive head fake that in fact and I look back on this Dan and I think Jesus this was just so obvious they tell Americans to get out of there and also and I'll come back to this I think Netanyahu and that it doesn't mean the ad the operation is any less striking I think Netanyahu has political reasons to maintain a war footing comment a little bit about the other observation and I'll bring this back to what I hope young men learn to do earlier than I did, and that is be a critical thinker and be open to evolving your view when you get new information. And I got new information from your podcast that in fact this looks to have been quite coordinated. The the only debate is whether or not the US supported this Israeli war or allowed it. That's the debate. meaning meaning there's a debate like did they actively get involved and deeply involved in the coordination or they basically Israel said we got to do this and this is how we got to do it and the US was Trump was basically persuaded okay do it you know and we're going to like observe and be helpful you know to some degree but we're not going to be heavily involved that's the range of scenario it's not like whether or not they were dramat you know dug in opposed versus um intimately involved there's a little bit of like great you know like wiggle room flexibility within that space and I I think you're right, Scott, that um that President Trump, like most leaders around the world, like success and want to be associated with success and strength and daring. And I I've I've personally heard President Trump, for instance, be critical uh of Israel after October 7th, meet, you know, soon after October 7th, where he thought Israel looked like a, you know, like a paper tiger and they did. And at the same time, uh I've heard him marvel at what Israel accomplished with the pager attack and completely change his view. And I I think there's a tendency and I see this a lot in Western capitals and I see it a lot even among um you know some very strong supporters of Israel around the world. There's a tendency to want Israel to be perceived as the David and not the Goliath. That and I understand it by the way right because because you're you're sitting there and you're thinking give me a break. It's a country of 10 million people surrounded by enemies that that you know want to wipe it off the map. And it's been in a state of war since its founding. Been fighting this since October 7th. It's sevenf frontont war. Of course, Israel's the David. And you you almost and you want to tell all of Israel's critics like who are you kidding here? But the reality is it's the wrong message. Because in the world of geopolitics, if your goal is to find friends that provide strategic value or at least start to cultivate what could be future friends, say Saudi Arabia if you're Israel, they really aren't interested in David. They want to partner with Goliath, right? They they they want to piggy back onto strength. If I look at before October 7th, Israel was inching closer and closer to a normalization deal with Saudi Arabia. If you ask yourself why that was happening, why that was moving so fast. If you ask yourself why the Abraham Accords happened, it was because Israel was a right a technology superpower globally, an economic superpower in the region, and a military and intelligence juggernaut that that Saudi wanted to piggyback onto that strength. And that strength or the perception of the strength was punctured on October 7th. And I think what you have seen beginning with the pager attack if you want to bookend it uh to what Israel has just accomplished over the last few days, it's sent a message that Israel is actually a Goliath. And I think countries around the world, leaders around the world say, "Hey, we want to be with that. We could never do that. That's impressive. We want that." And I think the US government and the president have a similar approach. They're like, "Of course, wait a minute. That that country is our ally. that country is our friend. We like what they're doing. That's impressive. And and I will say in a world in which the US in in ways that make me uncomfortable, to be honest, in a world in which the US is increasingly pulling back from world affairs. Yeah. And and this this is a 20-year trend basically, but but obviously it's we're watching it right now, too. From President Trump's perspective and the and the leadership of the US, they say, "Okay, we're pulling back, but that country Israel, that one's that one's with us. And look what they just did." And in a world in which we're pulling back our resources, it's good to know that they can do what they can do. And so I think ultimately in the world of of geopolitics and diplomacy, Israel is much better off doing things like it just did. And I think to your point, the the the president is like softly supporting something versus watching what plays out and then supporting it very publicly and energetically is is the difference between a dazzling operation and one that stumbles. Yeah, there's I think a lot about brands and I think geopolitics is 98% brand and 2% actual hard power and that is most people will never come in contact with an American or America but they've heard that we spent $800 billion on a military and have a very strong you know our memory is long and our reach is far and that also that we're generally I think until recently perceived as the good guys which makes them more likely to want to do business with us and their their most their best and brightest universities here and more likely to alert the American embassy if they hear about a terrorist cell trying to infiltrate US interests and I think soft power brand if you will and I always think of the Israeli brand was this peanut butter and chocolate of it's strange the the world and you said this is comfortable with a dead Jew and that is I remember the my first exposure to to Israel and Judaism was in 72 we were watching the Olympics and I remember for the first time registering that my parents looked really upset and concerned and they were staring at the TV of this guy in an apartment complex on the balcony with a ski mask on and asking what was going on and that was uh you know the Munich Olympics and the slaughter of the Israeli athletes and then so it was like okay they're a victim and that I think really benefited Israel to be seen as is the as you said as the David constantly that anti-semitism is a light sleeper and obviously the Holocaust And then the second part was I remember in I think I was in the seventh grade us spending an entire class talking about the the uh operation inbi and the rescue and just how quite frankly how badass that was and you're a 12year-old boy you think wow Israel right and it strikes me that the brand most recently is more the latter than the former and then I think that's a good thing I think basically Israel has said look if If you get comfortable with dead Jews, you got to start getting comfortable with fighting Jews. And I actually think that is a more advantageous position that we're going to go on the offense. We are not to be with. And we are very good at what we do. And our our men and women in uniform are not only incredibly brave, they're incredibly wellresourced. And the people on the ground are very good at what they do. So I my sense is this is I see this and I'm curious to get your take. I see this as the most important. Israel's actions around cutting off the hands of all of these proxies of Iran, whether it's the Houthis or Hezbollah or Hamas and now Iran that similar to what Ukraine has done fighting back against Russia, that they have defanged what was seen as the superpower in the Gulf. And now I would argue that the superpower in the Gulf uh hands down is Israel. They may the only thing they have that Saudi Arabia has is they don't have oil, right? But it looks as if in an information economy, you'd rather have an entrepreneurial culture. And you wrote a book on this called Startup Nation. Could this potentially be a real unlock, if you will, around I mean, I'm trying to look at the glasses half empty here that they come to some sort of agreement with Iran that Saudi Arabia steps up and says, "All right, sucks to be a grown-up. They're the power in the region, and we might this might result in something resembling a sustainable peace." What we've just witnessed over the last few days and really I think over the past year is the biggest transformation in the Middle East and the biggest transformation in terms of Israel's geopolitical position in the Middle East since the six- day war 1967. uh which which obviously sent a message to the region and to the world that that Israel um let's just say to to bring it back to what you were just saying it it was a dramatic brand enhancement for Israel the winning the way the six day war there's no present for it I asked for a recent speech I gave I asked two British historians of of military history and geopolitical history world affairs I asked Andrew Roberts Lord Andrew Roberts from the UK and I asked Neil Ferguson who you've I know you've you've had on your podcast I asked them both separately Is there any precedent for a country under the kind of threat it was under which was existential from from from from guerilla commando types like Hamas to, you know, 200,000 rockets staring down its country like it had from Hezbollah, not to mention, you know, hund over 100,000 fighters to a country right by its border that wants to build a nuclear weapon that it's say it's openly pointing at at Israel. Is there any present for a country that has ex had this kind these kinds of threats arrayed against them and in a matter of a year and a half to two years so dramatically transformed its its situation towards each one of them and to the region and they both said you have to go back like a couple hundred years I mean you know Robert said like you know looked at France and I forget like something like 200 years ago I mean there's not the bottom line is these are two guys I trust and and they said there's just no precedent for this and so I don't want to say permanent peace because who the hell knows the world is complicated and fluid. But I think we are on the path to doing two extremely important things. One, I think more Arab countries today today are going to be interested and open to the idea of normalizing rel relations with Israel than they were, you know, a year and a half ago, a year ago, 6 months ago. I think we're we're on a path towards some some something big happening. And this was a necessary ingredient because all of the countries, the Sunni Arab countries in the Middle East are terrified of Iran and Israel has just demonstrated that they're the only ones that can, you know, um, take them apart. So I, so I think we're on that path, but there's another aspect here that I think is even bigger than the region. Iran was very close. We can, there are debates between intelligence agencies about how close, but Iran, but there's no debate about whether or not Iran was getting close to having a nuclear weapons capability. that is that that it that the level at which it was enriching uranium which was getting itself damn close to weapons grade enrichment which no country needs for a civilian nuclear program. You only do that for one reason, one reason only. And then two, as Nadava said on my podcast, the weapons group, which is the group within Iran that job it is is to take the ingredients of a nuclear bomb like the enriched uranium and actually create the warhead that you know that delivers it. and the weapons group had gotten extremely active in recent months and was acquiring a lot of things. So, so the the concern about the speed with which the the enrichment was happening and the speed with which the weapons group was moving and seemed to be active uh scared everyone especially the Israelis the IAEA had expressed concerns. So our hope of diplomatic non-prololiferation which was this I think a a misguided and and naive hope when you're dealing with a country like Iran that has made it so clear that having a nuclear weapon was like central to its rais on detra in world affairs and in regional affairs the idea that with through diplomatic maneuvers you were going to be able to persuade them not to have not to to stop pursuing that I think was was unrealistic. There are four countries in the world today that pose a real threat to the United States and to the West. China, Russia, North Korea, and Iran. All four of those countries, for different reasons, pose a serious threat to the United States and the West. Three of those countries have a nuclear weapon. China, Russia, North Korea. And North Korea, as recently as 2006 is when they basically declared that they had a nuclear weapon. Iran was the only one that didn't. And the idea that the West was going to be able to stop Iran from getting that nuclear weapon by diplomatic maneuverings, as I said, I was not going to happen. And so by Israel using force to prevent that, it has done a real service to the world and to the West because had Iran gone nuclear, it would have that really would have sparked the nuclear arms race in the Middle East and God knows what that would look like. Saudi the kingdom didn't want no nobody wanted to have a nuclear weapon right the the the also just the as someone who thinks a lot about technology what is really struck me is the technology we're all talking about AI constantly the in my opinion the more meaningful technology uh and maybe AI played a big you know AI is more like electricity now it seems to be playing a role in everything but both in Ukraine and this latest attack which has happened inside of Russia in terms of taking out a large portion of their strategic bomb bomber fleet. I'm just shocked at what an incredible role, what an innovation drones are playing that the asymmetric warfare and it just it seems to play so well to Israel's strengths of being innovative, agile, entrepreneurial, really good with technology. But my understanding is they snuck in kind of portable launch vehicles to launch these swarms of drones such that you didn't necessarily need to count on a $200 million F-15 with you know with the re the refueling pressure and right all that and those those bombs are expensive right you know those those guid those those those missiles are you know can cost a couple million bucks to release a couple hundred thousand and then you take a $400 drone and you attach some C4 to it and I know let's send out a thousand of them see on one target and see if one gets through. Just strikes me that the technology of the of the year in terms of geop reshaping the geopolitical narrative is in fact asymmetric warfare through uh drones. But what I want to talk to you or get your impression of next is I I'm hopeful that and of course I as you know Dan I turn everything back to me. Um when I I grew up I grew up in Los Angeles and went to UCLA and it's cliche to say it but some of my best friends were Iranian and David a seal my my close friend of the fraternity you know I think LA has the greatest concentration of Iranians outside of Tran and it always struck me these are these are kids who like they almost often their parents came over the revolution super into education super entrepreneurial love money and I say that in a good way very capitalist love education ambitious ambitious just and I I went on to have one of my mentors as a younger man was Hamid Moadam who's the CEO of Prologess I have great friends Bac my friend Alex D I I I just love Iranians and I always thought Iranians are more American than Americans and to me it always struck me that the biggest one of the biggest unlocks in the most natural fits in terms of an alliance waiting to happen would be an alliance between America and Iran that if that culture still resides there, and I think it does, and it's such an amazing society, that it will be like handinand glove should at some point we kiss and make up. And my understanding is that the um IRGC has less than 30% support of the population. Is there an opportunity here? I mean, is the big opportunity and how realistic is it that at some point America and Iran could be great allies? So that to answer your question, yes. Uh the I obviously the regime would have to the Islamic regime would have to fall, but that was certainly the case. Many of those Iranians you you grew up with, Scott, are are people who came from an Iran and were raised in Iran or at least their parents were that did have close relations with the United States and had close relations, by the way, with Israel. Israel before the before 197 before the late '7s had a very close relationship with Iran and incredible cooperation. I mean, keep in mind it's a young it's a young uh population. It is a very highly educated uh population. It's a large population. Um so I in a world in which this regime is gone. I mean it's it's a it's it's it's not just an aggressive regime in terms of its use of violence and it it really is a theocratic messianic regime. So, anyone that has the kind of motivational, ambitious Jews that you're describing, assuming they're they're secular or quasi secular, uh, do not want to live under that kind of that kind of regime. And so, they either scatter, which are like the families of the ones you dealt with and got out, or they just or they just hunker down and don't really contribute to society and mind their own business and, you know, pray that this regime will pass. And if this regime passes, and like I said, we're watching it happen. We just watched it happen in Syria. Okay. The Assad regime was in power, as I said, for 53 years. There was a 13 13 to 14year civil war being fought. Hundreds of thousands of Syrians were killed. And then in 13 days, I mean, that's the thing people don't appreciate. I, you know, how the CI, you know, there's always these questions. The CIA missed this revolution, they missed that revolution, they missed, they didn't anticipate the fall of the Berlin Wall, they didn't because these things are very hard. You never know what is actually gonna going to tip it where people within the regime say enough and we're going to start taking on the regime. I think you have that potential now for the reasons I was saying earlier where Iranians even in the system in the security system are saying what are we fighting for? What are we doing? This is Israel just humiliated this regime and if the regime falls uh I think the potential for what you're describing is extraordinary and I and I just want to also pick up on something else you said a moment ago. I think you're seeing the future of warfare. There are two laboratories in the world today for the future of warfare. It's Ukraine, as you said, and it's Israel. Yeah. And I there's an organization I'm involved with in Israel that that was was was called Startup Nation Central, which was founded after my book came out, and it they keep track of every Israeli startup in every sector. And about a year a year and a half ago, there were something like 160 I looked 160 startups uh to uh in the defense tech space in Israel. And that was considered a lot country of 10 million people. I recently cited that number on this on this other Israeli economic podcast I'm involved with called What's Your Number? I mentioned the 160 and the head of Startup Nation Central called me and said, "Hey, you're wrong. It's not 160." I said, "What are you talking about?" He says, "It's now 330." And I said, 'But wait, I just got the 160 number a few months ago.' He says, 'Yeah, guess what? All these Israeli engineers and entrepreneurs who've been called up to fight in this war since October 7th, are now coming back from their reserve duty, and they're like, I don't want to go like work on adtech algorithms at Google, which is where I was working before the war. I want to go I want to go build a defense tech company of the future. So all these guys and gals are now starting defense tech companies. And so you're seeing this boom, pardon the pun, uh of of def of of the defense tech sector in Israel. And so I I think watching Israel, watching Ukraine, watching the exact things that you're pointing to in terms of the the technology, the innovation, and the knowhow, I think this sector is going to flourish in Israel and other spots over the next few years. And I think it's it's going to actually I think a lot of people are going to economically benefit from the flourishing of this sector. And I think societyy's going to benefit because it's going to create technologies that enable countries like ours and others to fight in a very targeted and I dare I say humanitarian way minimizing civilian casualties with very targeted military pin prick like surgical military operations. That's one of the things these capabilities give militaries the capacity to do. Yeah. And I think it's going to be funded by Europe who's going to be spending an incremental, if they take, as stated by the EU, their defense spending from 1.9% to 3%, you're talking about an incremental $200 billion to go into uh increased defense spending. And the EU or a lot of smart people, a lot of smart military analysts are going to realize the future is asymmetric warfare. It's it's all about drones. uh and AI it's not about you know probably not about kinetic power the question or what I wanted to talk to you about um is do you see so what do we have here we have obviously the US and Israel you know allies if you will um what what I what struck me and I'm I want to go broader here and then I'm going to let you go and get get back to your family and your Saturday I somehow ended up in a Jewish fraternity at UCLA ZBT most of my close friends from college still really close Jews and I was the atheist Jew never never never have felt much affinity for Israel not not I'm a rabbid atheist and then October 7th happened and I've become kind of I call myself a raging Zionist although I'm still an atheist and I've always been pretty you know you're you're I would describe you as a Romney Republican I don't know if you like that title I'm sort of a Clinton Republican or I don't know a moderate I'm sorry moderate Democrat And most of my friends voted for Trump because their sort of they came it kind of became after October 7th one issue voters and their issue was Israel and they saw the Trump administration as being more much more resolute. Whereas Biden, who I believe didn't get the credit he deserved, deploying an aircraft carrier, strike force, you know, didn't want to take credit and kept being kind of milling a lot of yeah, buts. A lot of I thought really I I thought they could not have handled that worse on the ground. They were actually very supportive in my view, but yet kept saying all this what aboutism and I just thought they couldn't have handled it any worse and turned off a lot of my friends who wanted the more resolute Trump who said we fullthroated support of Israel. And and by the way, Biden in the early days did talk like that in the early days after October 7. He flew to Israel. He deployed two carrier strike forces 24 hours, right? Right. To tell everyone to tell Iran to sit the down. Right. Anyways, so I was and I'm curious to get your reaction. I was really disappointed and quite frankly rubbing it a little bit in my friend's face when Trump decided to go to the Middle East to the Gulf. And of the five largest economies, skip the two that were democracies or near democracies, specifically Israel or Turkey, because in my view, they're not they can't nor will they give him a building or a golf course, and accepts a $400 million plane from what I see as the political mouthpiece and the financial sponsors of Hamas. And my my view to my friends was, I just don't think this guy gives a about Jews or Israel. And I was really disappointed to see uh the Trump administration take that plane and cozy up to Qatar because nothing's for free. And I I said this is telling about where where the admin current administration's heart really lies as it relates to defense of the Jewish people. I want to get your thoughts and your reaction to that. Uh so I I say a couple things. one, look, obviously I don't know what's in Donald Trump's head uh at any moment or heart in term in terms of what what is his real personal connection to the Jewish people. I just don't I get asked this question all the time. I know he has Jewish grandchildren. I know he uh but I I don't really know. I think I try to take a step back when I get questions like this and say, "What do we know about the Republican base, about the conservative base in American politics?" and it is deeply deeply deeply connected to Israel and feels a very strong connection uh to Jews. Now, I don't want to get into the you know, we could spend a whole episode talking about why and the history of that, but it is a reality and I think President Trump is very aware of that and very dialed into that and certainly members of Congress, Republican members of Congress are. So, I'll give you an example. About a month ago, there was an a letter organized by Senators Cotton and Graham, Lindsey Graham, to President Trump telling Trump, "No way can you tolerate enrichment of uranium in Iran in the context of any Iran deal. No way." And this is at a time when Steve Wood and the administration was appeared to be heading in a direction where they were going to be for some allowing some kind of enrichment. And that was a red line for Israel. And here are a couple of Republican hawks, traditional kind of Republican internationalist hawks, uh, telling Trump, "No way." That didn't surprise me that Graham and and and Cotton wrote that letter. What surprised me was that 52 of the 53 Republican senators in the Senate Republican conference signed the letter. The only one that didn't was Ran Paul, and that's for other reasons. So 52 senators. Now, when's the last time you saw 52 Republican senators and and and an equally proportionately like high number among House members sent their own letter? When's the last time you saw Republican members on mass sign a letter to the president of the United States pushing him publicly against what appeared to be a policy track he was on? I can't think of one. Um I we saw some of it recently with the over, you know, some of the tax issues in the in the in the big beautiful bill, but other than that, we we've not we've not seen it. And that tells me that these members of Congress and these senators are very aware of where their voters are, where their constituents are on this issue. And I think the president I think Trump is dialed into that. So that that's one thing. The second thing I would say is I was a little unnerved by some of the visuals you're describing from the president's trip to the Gulf. Now I in a sense I understood and I talked to some officials in the administration why he did not go to to Israel on that trip. One, there's no leader the president, no single leader the president has spent more time with since he was sworn in than Netanyahu, right? Netanyahu has been to the US several times to meet with the president. I mean, they're just in constant, you know, his top aids are constantly coming in. They meet with the president directly, as we now know, literally now know over the last few days, there's been a lot going on. There wasn't a behind-the-scenes operational relationship issue. Now, the question is, was there a symbolism issue? Was there a symbolism, as you said, of him showing up in Doha and and Dubai or you uh Abu Dhabi and and Riad and not and not Israel? And what they were wrestling with at the time, and I don't want to get into the merits of it, but I'll just what they were wrestling with at the time is that Gaza was still a mess. It was not clear if Idan Alexander, the last American hostage being held in Gaza, was going to get out. And that the idea of the president showing up in Israel with no real endgame in Gaza with an American citizen still being held in Gaza, it's like it just it would make the president look weak. Maybe, maybe not. We can debate that. But that was their argument. What worried me though more was what you're describing, which is is this the future of American diplomacy? Is this checkbook diplomacy where you start showing up to these countries and it's like this country says we're going to put a trillion dollars. So, we're going to put $5 trillion into the American I mean it and and in in a world in which that happens, Israel can't compete. And I think what you saw over the last few days, Israel has its own way competing because what Israel is demonstrating is, yeah, we're not going to be the country that personally, you know, has, you know, shakes and and and Amirs who can write checks for billions and trillions of dollars in into the American economy, but we are the most capable ally in the world. and you, the United States, are going to get more out of this relationship uh than you give. And I think Israel could talk about it conceptually. I think what you saw over the last few ways is Israel's own version of, you know, it's it's it's let's alternative model to checkbook diplomacy. Yeah. And and I I've said for a while, I think the best ROI I think of things in terms of through the lens of shareholder values, investments in our university around R&amp;D, around healthcare and weapons. Quite frankly, I think USAD showed us a tremendous return in terms of soft power. But maybe even above both those things is our recent investments in support in Ukraine and Israel. And I I always like to remind people that Israel took out more terrorists from our most wanted list in 6 weeks than we had taken out in 20 years. It just feels like the the ROI on military or financial support of Israel has been exponential. I would argue for the United States and the West. you're closer to this than anyone I know. And one of the things I respect about you is uh I know I think I I do know your politics because I've gotten to know you a little bit better, but you're very measured such that you you don't immediately prompt people's screens to not listen to you. I think you're more you you have figured out something despite the fact you're much younger than me that I still struggle with and that is you understand the difference between being right and being effective and you want to be effective based on everything you see all the people you talk to your assessment of the situation what do you are you comfortable speculating about both internally in Israel with respect to Netanyahu's future the the power shift in the region what if any moons do you see lining up across the geopolitical relationship relationships in the Gulf uh in the Middle East in uh Israel, the US. What do you what do you see forming? Recognizing no one has a crystal ball, but if you had to guess what the world as it relates to Israel uh looks like in the next 12 24 months, what would you what would you postulate? Israel is going to have to go to elections. Nothing is going to have to go to elections by no later than October 26th. uh October of 2026. Um and but he has he can choose when he does that uh between now and then, but according to Israeli law, he can call an election no later than October of 2026. And I think after events of the last few days, I would I would think he would be calling elections sooner rather than later. Uh, I mean, I don't mean immediately, but I mean, it's not I don't think he's going to wind the clock down to, you know, summer of, you know, spring of 2026 before he he calls an election. Um, and I think whether or not, look, what what Israel did over the last few days, politics in Israel is extremely divisive and extremely polarized right now. Like, it makes our politics seem like, you know, like copacetic, everything's fine. I mean, it's really things are really I don't I don't want to I don't want to um understate how how tense things are domestically and politically inside Israel and and and you know, it's a lot about the tension between the ultraorththodox religious Jews and the and the nonorth the non the non-haredim as they're called who the non ultraorththodox Jews who you know because the ultraorththodox aren't serving in the army. It's it's you know the wear and tear on the military the sense the frustration that there's no what is the real end plane plan in Gaza like where is this going? There's a lot of tension inside Israel. And I would say, Scott, on this issue of confronting Iran, there's no disagreement. There's total consensus. I speak to political leaders on my podcast elsewhere who are on the hard hard left in Israel who who loathe Netanyahu for for a whole range of reasons and will stand totally shoulder-to-shoulder with him on this issue. So, I I think Israel, Israeli society, even though it's going to be bumpy. I think over the next few days, I think, you know, we know of at least two Israelis who've been killed uh you know, in in Iran's response. I think, you know, and and dozens more who've been injured. I think we're going to see more of that over the next few days, unfortunately. So, I'm not I'm not saying it's all you know, it's all smooth sailing. Uh even with that, Israeli leadership completely stands with Natu and actually believes he he I don't want to say he's singularly talented to have pulled all this off, but he he his talents were put to work in a way that that pulled all this off. And so does that mean he gets reelected? I don't know. But I think no matter who gets reelected or who gets elected as the next prime minister of Israel, I think the environment we're in right now, which is for the first time a country that was on its way to a nuclear weapon that posed a threat to Israel, the Arab countries in the Middle East, Europe, and the United States that that that has their nuclear program is basically being thwarted by is we've talked about extra extraordinary military force, extraordinary intelligence. I think that condition creates the perfect environment for whoever is the leader in Israel, whether it's whether it's Netanyahu or Yer Laid or Benny Gans or Napali Bennett or maybe someone who's not even on our radar to capitalize on this moment and start to do things like we've been talking about here, which is start to accelerate normalization with Saudi Arabia and maybe some other countries too that are not on anyone's radar. So, I think we will look back at this period, Scott, and say this was this right now was the beginning of what will have been obvious to us a couple years from now of a of of just the real normalization of relations in the region. It won't be, like I said, it won't all be kind of seamless, but it'll it'll it'll we're going to see a level of functionality between countries in the Middle East that were probably unimaginable just a few years ago. Dan Senor is a leading expert on Israel in the Middle East. He's the co-author of The Genius of Israel and Startup Nation. He's also the host of the Call Me Back podcast. Uh Dan, this morning I got up and I'm like, I need to understand what's going on here. And I went to CNN very measured like I I was just too measured for me. It's like all this self-hate and then I go to Fox and they're like go Israel with like literally the nuance of an elephant on you know on on aderall or on hopped up on something and I thought where can I go and I immediately pulled up your podcast called me back and you had this this 60inute tour to force of what is going on here. you are. I I just love that you're I think you're doing a real service to people who want to call balls and strikes around all things Israel. Also, I should point out that I met Dan, my sister betrayed my trust. I took her to DC as a big brother, thinking I was doing a nice thing when she was in college, and she betrayed me and went to work as an intern for some far-right crazy congressperson, much to my horror. And I'm like, that's not why I took you to DC. and I show up and she's living with eight people including this nice young kid named Dan Senor and we connected like 25 years later and I'm really I I really enjoy our our kind of rekindled friendship here. Anyways, can I rock your world given the story you just told I I don't want to say which son and I don't say and I don't want to say for whom but one of my sons this summer is going to intern in Washington and I'm like wow you know you write a lot about No, I hope it's AOC. If there's if there's karma in the world, it's AOC or Elan Omar. I I would love if it's I'm not commenting on for whom, but I I will just have him call me. Have him call me. I'm I'm going to freak you and Campbell out. I'm absolutely going to turn this hell, I guess. I'm going to turn him back to the to the to the light. I see light in him. Anyways, my brother, thank you for your time and have a great rest of the weekend. Take care. [Music]