You wrote this great op-ed. I think it was in the Washington Post saying that we can't beat China be by becoming more like China. We beat them by becoming more like the US. Say [music] more. The US made this terrible mistake. It thought that uh China was going to become more like America. And [music] in fact, it didn't. You know, it stayed a dictatorship and state lenders. That's a fair critique. But what's ironic [music] is the US is becoming more like China. We're adopting state control of the economy. We're adopting the idea of industrial policy and [music] restricting trade and most importantly we are politicizing the economy. >> Fared where does this podcast find you >> in New York? >> So we were talking off Mike my book was 375th on Amazon and then I went on Fred Zakaria and immediately jumped to like 90th. So Fared is a kingmaker in addition to all the other things you do. So thanks for having me on Farade. >> It was a huge pleasure. Your your segment did fantastically for us and I do think one of the things I'm very proud of with our show is uh you know we have pretty good numbers but most importantly we have attentive audience of people who like to listen to smart people like you and buy books. I can't promise you they read the books but they do buy the books. >> Well I mean that's that's unusual. A lot of programs get smart people. Very few get people who buy books anymore. I read this crazy stat that 1% of people buy 99% of the books. Anyways, and I know you have a new book or have a book out. I wanted to get to kick things off. It feels as if as disappointed as people are in Trump's uh administration so far and as unpopular as he is, there's a lot of evidence showing that if the election were held again today, he would still win. And that it's difficult to find a group of people who are less popular than the current administration. But we found one and that's Democrats. It definitely feels and I say this as a progressive. It definitely feels we're lost in the wilderness. Really looking for a north star. If and maybe they have, if the Democratic National Committee brought you in and said, "What is our north star? What do you think we need to do to find our center of gravity at the Democratic Party?" What would your advice be? >> It's a great question, uh, Scott, because you really are hitting on something that's very, very important. Because it's not just the Democrats. If you look around the world, the left everywhere is in ruins. Look at France, the Socialist Party of France, one of the great left of center parties in the world, all destroyed. You look in Germany, the German Social Democrats, again, one of the original great social democratic parties, in ruins. You look at Italy, the the Democrats, the left of center that ran the country for most of the last 70 years, in ruins. So what is happening? Why is it that the left is facing this uh you know this kind of collapse? Well, I mean one of the things I try to argue in my book the age of revolutions is that we are going through a huge backlash against 30 years of globalization and technological change and cultural changes. But what's fascinating about these these phenomena I go back in you know hundreds of years in history is that when they when they happen when people feel this sense of existential anxiety about the world they're in they tend to move right culturally not left economically. So when they feel like my world is disappearing they they search for those people who say I'm going to make it all better. I'm going to take you back. I'm going to give you tradition and religion and the way things were. [clears throat] And that's what the right does. The, you know, it's a politics of cultural nostalgia. The left says, "We've got three more government programs for you. We've got free health care. We've got free daycare. We've got free child care." And it turns out that people at that moment, they're not looking for another government program. They're angry. They're they're feeling like their world has been turned upside down. The right is much better at addressing what is fundamentally a kind of cultural anxiety than the left, which tends to always want to solve these problems by saying, "Hey, we're going to throw more money at you." Give you one simple example. Joe Biden spent more money on red America than any Democrat has in the last 50 years. All his bills, infrastructure, IRA, everything was targeted almost at spending money in red counties. I think by one estimate 80% of Biden's spending plans went to red counties. They voted more against the Democrats, more against Kala Harris, more against uh the you know the left in 2024 than they had in 2020 after $2 trillion was spent on them. So I want to put forward a thesis and I I really am asking this for illumination not for confirmation but my every every as hammer everything I see is a nail but my thesis around this pivot from blue to red is uh largely explained or at least partially explained by the struggles of young people and specifically young men. If you look at the groups that went furthest from the left to the right, it was one Latinos to uh people under the age of 40 who are just less wealthy uh than people our age and uh are angry about it. Maybe they're not good at math, but they can do math. And then the third group I found most interesting that pivoted hardest from blue to red were women aed 45 to 64. And my thesis is that's their mothers. And there's still a lot of women, I think, in the West who will vote for who they perceive as being in the best interests of their husbands and sons. And you don't care much about territorial sovereignty or social programs or transgender rights when your son isn't doing well. That a lot of this move towards a strong man or the chaos candidate. And Trump does represent, I call it chaos, some people would say represent change. that a lot of it can be reverse engineered to young people's struggles and specifically the struggles of young men. Where do I have that right and where do I have that wrong? Oh, I think you're entirely right. Um, you know, it's the the funny thing is these things all work together, right? Like economic anxiety translates into cultural anxiety translates into a desire to kind of burn the house house down. Um but you know to just clarify in a way um if you look at and say to yourself well it's all about income inequality or something. Well you know Sweden has very little income inequality right this is one of the countries that has the most advanced social safety nets in the world. They have a huge right-wing populism problem. If you say well it's because we lost our manufacturing base. Well Germany preserved its manufacturing base. They've got a right-wing populism problem. You say it's about we haven't looked after our workers enough. France cuddles its workers more than any country in the world and they have a right-wing populism problem. So, there's something going on. And you're right to focus in on this sense of like, you know, helplessness. My world has disappeared. My prospects look bleak. Um, and what happened, I think, in the the the phenomenon you're describing, as I see it, the women, as you say, in a sense, voted more again for for nostalgia, for tradition, for a return to some kind of more traditional settled way of life. The young men, what's really interesting, as far as I can tell, it's young Hispanic and young black men, as you say, moving right. What's happening there is the Democrats are saying to them, "Vote for us because of your identity, because of your race, your ethnicity." The Republicans are saying, "Vote for us because of your social and educational class. You are, [snorts] you know, a non-oled educated folk." And the Democrats are a party of elitists who believe in transgender rights and all, you know, all this woke ideology. We're we're simple traditional. We're the party of of of of common sense. I thought Trump, one of Trump's geniuses in the last uh Republican convention was to put Hulk Hogan on and have him tear his shirt out. A lot of us looked at that and thought, "What is this weirdness?" Right? What Trump was signaling to young men, uh, particularly, I think, young non-oled educated men is the Democrats are the party of unisex bathrooms. We're the party of Hulk Hogan. Who do you feel more comfortable with? So, there's a lot of that. Again, Trump knows how to play these cultural notes so much better than Democrats do. Uh, and and you can see as again I I I I come back to culture just because I think, you know, it's economics translating into culture because if you look at pure economics, you know, the right-wing populism in Europe, for example, it's happening in Sweden, [music] they don't have an income inequality problem. It's happening in Germany, they don't have a loss of manufacturing base problem, right? So, there's something deeper going on here than just [music] economics. Support for the show comes from Adobe Express. With social media, email, and a growing variety of online ads, there are more touch points than ever between your business and its customers. Adobe Express is here to make sure your smallest touch point is as polished, impactful, and onbrand as the biggest. [music] The brand kits in Express make following design rules a breeze. Templates for flyers, banners, emails, social posts, and more have all the professional quality Adobe is known for. [music] And generative AI that's safe for business gives everyone the ability to make images, rewrite texts, and produce effects using simple text prompts. You can create campaigns, resize ads with a click, and even translate content automatically. Work that used to take weeks now takes minutes or even seconds. Adobe Express also makes collaboration, approval, and sharing easier, so any team can become a welloiled content machine. And if you're leading your team, you can monitor it all from your admin console. That means you have one centralized place where you [music] can ensure that every asset is right and that everyone is synced. Go from fragmented to businessfriendly. Switch to the quick and easy app to create onbrand content. Adobe Express. Learn more at adobe.com/express/business. [music] True story, I've actually used Adobe Express and I was genuinely impressed with how easy it is to create professional content that you can immediately push out. [music] Support for the show comes from LinkedIn. We say this all the time on our show, but it bears repeating. Running a small business isn't just [music] a full-time job. It's about a dozen full-time jobs that you rarely, if ever, get to clock out of, at least until you get to the point where you can start hiring the dream team. And if you've made it that far, you already know there's no time to mess around. That's where LinkedIn Jobs [music] comes in. LinkedIn makes it easy to post your job for free, share with your network, and get qualified candidates that you can manage all in one place. And LinkedIn's new AI feature can even help you write job descriptions and then quickly get it in front of the right people with deep [music] candidate insights. And if you decide you want to go the extra mile to find the perfect candidate, LinkedIn says that promoted jobs get three times the number of qualified applicants. It's all these little things that let you find help [music] fast without compromising on quality, which add up to you finally having extra time in the day for, I don't know, relaxing. Or knowing my listeners, you probably use that extra time to [music] expand your empire even further. Post your job for free at linkedin.com/prof. [music] That's linkedin.com/prop to post your job for free. Terms and conditions apply. >> [music] >> Support for the show comes from Gruns. Even when you do your best to eat right, it's tough to get all the nutrition you need from diet alone. [music] That's why you need to know about Gruns. Gruns isn't a multivitamin, a greens gummy, or a prebiotic. It's all of those things and then some at a fraction of the price. And bonus, it tastes great. [music] All Grun's Daily Gummy Snack Packs are vegan, nut, gluten, dairyf free with no artificial flavors or colors. And they're packed with more than 20 vitamins and minerals, made with more than 60 nutrient-dense ingredients in whole food. Grunt's ingredients are backed by over 35,000 research publications, [music] and the flavor tastes just like sweet tart green apple candy. And for a limited time, you can try their Smith apple [music] flavor just in time for fall. It's got all the same snackable, packable, full body benefits you've come to expect. [music] But this time, these taste like you're walking through an apple orchard in a cable knit sweater, warm apple cider in hand. Grab your limited edition Gruny Smith apple Gruns. Available only through October. Stock up because they will sell out. Up to 52% off when you go to Gruns gruns.co and use the code prop. So, this isn't an outrageous thesis or or scenario, but when we have talk show hosts who are now the Secretary of Defense, I refuse to call it Secretary of War. I want you to imagine that Fared gets a call and says, "It's time to serve the country that's been so good to you, the United States, and you're going to be Secretary of State. And the first thing I need you to do is to brief the president on the state of the world looking at say different countries as stocks or as assets that have gone up in value and down in value. Where do you think the balance of power lies? Who's accreted power in the last 10 years? Who seated it? And what would be the two or three most important things you would recommend that the US does to recapture or strengthen its position globally? So the balance the balance of power I think is pretty uh clear that China has has gained ground and we have lost ground. Um you can see this for example an economist had a a study of Southeast Asia. Southeast Asia probably the most pivotal part of the world because it is at the heart of the contest for in Asia and economically it's deeply tied to China. Right? China is the dominant market. It's, you know, in in many ways, uh, they have to get on with China. And yet, in security terms, East Asia, Southeast Asia has always been very close to the US, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam. What has happened over the last really year, um, but it's been a longer term trend is they have all moved closer to China. Uh and that is because the tariffs have played you know have wrecked havoc on our alliances because you know rather than building up and helping our allies we're punishing them because what ends up happening is Trump uses the the leverage he has to punish people. We have leverage with our allies because they're the ones we trade the most with. So they're the ones of course with whom we have the most trade and they're the ones Trump says I can squeeze more. So I would say the fundamental thing that the United States needs to understand is we are in a contest for global influence power uh for technology platforms uh for the future of technology with China. China is the first real peer competitor the United States has had perhaps ever because the Soviet Union was never really a peer competitor economically and technologically. So the question is how do we engage in this competition? We we have one great superpower and you've talked about this a lot Scott you understand it very well. We have about 50 countries that are among the richest most advanced countries in the world that want to ally with us that believe in our values that believe the United States is the is a great you know kind of ring leader. If we can strengthen that alliance and create a kind of ecosystem, we can match and beat China in everything even in rare earths, even in critical minerals because we have Europe, we have Australia, we have Japan, we have India, we have Israel, you know, we have this extraordinary ecosystem. You know how many treaty allies uh China has? One, North Korea, and let's throw in Russia as a de facto ally. So if we've got 50 odd uh countries and they're the richest countries in the world and they've got these two decrepit countries, right? That should be the way we think about this. Instead, what Trump is doing, and this is really the central flaw of Trump's foreign policies, he's turned on our allies so that the Canadians are asking themselves, how do we think about our future for the next 30 years? Distancing ourselves from America. The Europeans are thinking how do we think of our future for the next 30 years developing independent alternate uh strategies towards China, Russia, India. Uh the Australians are worried we're going to abandon them on this nuclear submarine deal. So that's the fundamental mistake which is to not realize the allies are the greatest force multiplier the United States has, the greatest peaceime alliance in history. Almost every other alliance in history, Scott, ends when the war, the contest for which it was created ends. We created an alliance system during the Cold War. We won the Cold War and the alliance system grew rather than shrinking. Yeah. It's just I'm reminded what Churchill said, the only thing worse than fighting with your allies is fighting without them. I mean, it just it just it seems like the prosperity is so enormous that we decided to self- engage in self-sabotage. And I want to use this as a bridge. Um uh you you wrote this great op-ed. I think it was in the Washington Post saying that we can't beat China be by becoming more like China. We beat them by becoming more like the US. Say more. So, you know, one of the fascinating things about the last 10 or 15 years is that people have all kind of been uh talking about how the US made this terrible mistake. It thought that uh China was going to become more like America and in fact it didn't. You know, it stayed a dictatorship and state land. That's a fair critique. But what's ironic is the US is becoming more like China. We're adopting state control of the economy. We're adopting the idea of industrial policy and restricting trade. And most importantly, we are politicizing the economy so that the administration gets to pick who are the technology leaders, who gets special treatment. Okay, you ban chips, but if Jensen Huang comes to you in the White House and makes a a case, and by the way, maybe it makes a donation to your to your ballroom. Uh you will allow him to sell the chips, but you take a 15% cut. This is all entirely the opposite of the way the United States economy is meant to run. You know, I grew up in an India where that was how the economy ran. The politics was more important than economics. The market was less important as a signal setter than what was happening in the corridors of power. And when I came to America, what I loved about about the United States were that, you know, the market was not run by politicians. It was run by the market, by businessmen, by entrepreneurs, by investors. And we are politicizing the economy to an extent to which it is going to breed corruption. It is going to breed inefficiency. And most importantly, we don't play this game well. That's China's game. If the game is going to be who can better absorb pain, uh, restrict, you know, critical minerals, put in export bands, the Chinese will will beat us every time because they have no rule of law. They have no courts. They have no elections to worry about in terms of inflicting pain. Xinping doesn't care if the stock market goes down 20%. Right? So, we're sort of weirdly playing their game. What we should do is out innovate them, out compete them. Um, we and we have all the the tools at at our disposal, but we're engaging, as you said, in a kind of weird self-sabotage. >> So, you brought up something, I want to put forward another thesis and have you respond to it, and that is between the US and Europe about $50 trillion economy. Russia is two trillion. They should be. If we get into kind of a a confrontation or a war and the US and Europe decide to be on one side together, [snorts] it would logically you'd logically think that Russia should be a net running up against a windshield. It should just be a splat and overs soon. And yet it's not. And my thesis is that Russia hasn't a core confidence that we don't have. While Europe has refused to put a single boot on the ground, a million men perish or injured and yet they continue to fight the war. If AWS goes out for a day in the US and people lose their Netflix, they freak out here. Isn't Isn't one of the problems in going to solutions? One, do you agree with that? and two going to solutions. Quite frankly, hasn't America just become fat and happy and not used to sacrificing or believing that we can go to wars and cut taxes and that we might want to wave our hands and talk about the injustice of what's happening in Ukraine, but we aren't really willing to do what the Chinese and Russians are do are willing to do and that is have really significant sacrifice. Have we become fat and happy? Yes. in a word. I think you have it exactly where right with Ukraine, which is this is an existential challenge because it's an existential challenge to the idea of a kind of liberal rules-based world that the United States and Europe have created. uh Russia is trying desperately to break that world and it's trying to break it at this point that it has enormous leverage because it is right next door to Ukraine and as you say because it is willing to suffer pain you know and our solution to it has been oh let's sanction them Putin doesn't care about sanctions he doesn't care about the welfare of his people if he did he'd be running a completely different country what he cares about is Russia's imperial power the imperial might of the of the Russian state and he's got enough pro dollars to to fund that till for a time in memorial. The place where he would feel the pain is on the battlefield and that's why you know to my mind we we're in this kind of crazy situation in Ukraine where we do agree for the most part it's existential. We do agree that Russia is trying to do this. We do agree that we want to win but then we don't we don't do what it would take to win. Right? Like if you've decided this is you're in the fight, there are only two options. You're going to win or you're going to lose. Losing with moderation, you get no prizes. Losing with restraint, you get no prizes. So, you might as well win. And if we were to give Ukraine all the weapons in the in the world they need all, you know, air, I would argue some air support or things like that. If the Europeans were to put boots on the ground, this would be over. The Russians have lost. I mean the the the you know if you think about what Russia has lost compared to say for example during the cold war they lost I forget the number of troops in in Afghanistan but I think it was in the range of 20,000 25,000 or something like that they've lost two or 300,000 uh in Ukraine they've there may be 300,000 injured 500,000 young men fled the country this this Putin can't keep this up forever economically he can because he's turned it into a fortress militarized economy, but you know, you you have mothers whose children are dying and that is the pressure point and and and for and you know, with Trump, you're not quite sure why, but for some reason, he's never been willing to put real pressure on Russia. >> We talk a lot about the importance of the soccer mom in Wisconsin, and because of our electoral structure, there's just a small number of people who have a disproportionate amount of impact on our elections, the quoteunquote swing voter. And I would argue that the new swing voters globally that are you know could look east, could look west are the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia because of their economic power and also India. And it feels again in the biggest goal in history or recent history is that we have turned we have thrust India into the arms of she and Putin. That image of seeing she Putin and Modi looking like they were brothers I thought was the most chilling geopolitical image I'd seen in a while. Talk a little bit about the relationship between a do you agree and talk about a little bit about the relationship between the US and India and what do you think India how they perceive America and their new kind of strengthen relationships and any advice you would have for the state department as it relates to India. So this is a real extraordinary transformation that has taken place in the last year in India. If you pulled um a year ago and asked you know just countries forget about the governments uh attitudes towards America India was was usually among the top three most pro-American countries in the world the top three top five you know it was up there with Poland Israel um and this is astonishing because India's government for through the entire cold war was siding with the Soviet Union right so the Indian Indians have a very strong natural affinity and inclination towards America. They admire America. All Indian businesses admire America. Young Indians want to come to America for education. There's nothing more glamorous in India than saying that you have an a degree from an American college and things like that. So there's a huge amount of, you know, cultural power and attraction that the US has. It's flipped. is flipped because of a real sense that that Trump is trying systematically and consciously to screw India. India has the highest tariffs in the world now laid on it. So you look at that and you say, you know, why are you doing this to us? And then Trump uh went out of his way to favor Pakistan, you know. So there's a kind of weird element to it all. And what's strange about it is this has been one of America's great foreign policy successes and it's totally bipartisan. So a at the end of the cold war uh the United States starts to woo India to to to you know come become part of the kind of American you know if you will sphere of influence our our ecosystem it's a democracy it's you know 10% of the country speaks English it's connect all these connections to the west Clinton begins it a massively successful state uh visit George Bush probably Republican makes the most important shift which is He he accepts that India is a nuclear power and stops sanctioning it. Obama makes the pivot to Asia which in large part is a strengthening of the relationship with India and and Trump in Trump 1.0 He continues that process and again somewhat inexplicably he's turned on India and undone four administration's work bipartisan 25-year project of bringing India closer to the United States and to to underscore your point uh Scott there is only one country in the world that has the scale to to to be uh to replace China and and if you're if you're trying to create a a non-Chinese ecosystem. If you want to make, you know, massive amounts of uh of of consumer electronics or iPhones, only India has the scale to be able to do that. If you want to make massive amounts of pharmaceuticals, only India has the ability to do that. If you want to, you know, for the next pandemic, you don't want to be reliant on China because many of these things we're talking about are low margin goods where you need to make them in massive scale. That's not going to be done in in uh in in Texas or California. That's not even going to be done in Europe. Only India can play the role of the next China with regard to that kind of manufacturing. It can be cru crucial in processing of of critical minerals like rare because India you know it has lower environmental concerns. So [snorts] with all that being you know that's the prize to screw it up and and and the strange thing is I still have not heard a coherent reason why this has happened you know why does India have the highest tariffs in the world it makes no [music] sense in the US and India trade is not even that great so you're trying to look for a reason and unfortunately we're living in a court and so you're just trying to understand was the emperor in a bad mood that >> [music] >> Support for the show comes from Vanta. As a founder, you're moving fast toward product market fit, your next round, or your first big enterprise deal. But with AI accelerating how quickly startups build and ship, your security expectations are higher earlier than ever. Getting security and compliance right can unlock [music] growth or stall it if you wait too long. Vanta is a trust management platform that helps businesses automate security and compliance with deep integrations and automated workflows built for fastmoving teams. [music] So whether you're a startup tackling your first sock 2 or ISO 2701 or an enterprise managing vendor risk, Mant's trust management platform makes it quicker, easier, and more scalable. The results, according to an IDC study, Vant customers slash over $500,000 a year in costs. [music] Establishing trust isn't optional. Vant makes it automatic. Go to vanta.com/provg [music] to save $1,000 today through the Vant for startups program and join over 10,000 ambitious companies already scaling with Vant. [music] That's venta.com/profg to save $1,000 for a limited time. [music] Support for Prof comes from Chime. It's no secret that managing your money can be stressful. Overdraft fees, mispayments, and the constant worry about saving more can add on undue pressure when life already feels full. Chime says it can help ease that stress by giving you simple tools to take control of your finances one step at a time. With Chime, your money moves faster for you. You can open a checking account with no monthly or maintenance fees, set up direct deposit, and even get paid up to two days early. Plus, Chime offers fee free overdraft coverage of up to $200. Chime says it's already spotted members more than $30 billion. [music] And with more than 47,000 feef free ATMs, that's more than the top three national banks combined. They say you'll have your money wherever you go. It's all designed to help you stress less, save more, and make your money work harder for you. You can work on your financial goals through Chime today. You can open an account in 2 minutes at chime.com/proche. That's chime.com/propg. Chime feels like progress. >> Chime [music] is a financial technology company, not a bank. Banking services and debit card provided by the bank or bank NA or Stride Banka members FDIC. Spotting eligibility requirements and overdraft limits apply. Timing depends on submission of payment file. These apply at out of network ATMs, same bank ranking and number of ATMs according to US News and World Report 2023. Chime checking account required. >> Support for the show comes from Better Help. With the weather getting colder, it's a lot easier to stay inside, turn on the TV, and ignore the rest of the world for a while. But when you're all alone and isolated during these short, dark days, it's very easy to get down on yourself. Human connection is important and this November, BetterHelp wants you to reach out, make a coffee date with an old friend, write a letter to a distant family member, and take steps to connect with a licensed therapist with BetterHelp. Just fill out a short questionnaire to help identify your needs and preferences, and BetterHelp's industryleading matching process will put you in touch with a qualified therapist. And if you aren't happy with your match, switch to a different therapist at any time from their tailored recommendations. Reaching out is one of those funny things where at first it feels like a chore. And then once you've done it, you often think to yourself, "Why didn't I do this sooner?" This month, don't wait to reach out. Whether you're checking in on a friend or reaching out to a therapist yourself, BetterHelp makes it easier to take that first step. You can get 10% off their first month at betterhelp.com/propg. That's betterhp.com/propg. So, try and put us in the head of the current administration's decision to strike Venezuelan boats allegedly carrying drugs. Do you see this as an attempt to try and secure additional energy supplies as performative masculinity, distraction from Epstein? I I just I have I can at least make an argument for some if not most of the things he does even if you don't agree with them. This to me just seems so such a nonsequittor an anomaly. What What do you think is in the head heads of Hegsath Rubio and Trump striking these boats? Look, you're trying to explain something that doesn't make a lot of sense because actually, you know, the the vast majority of the drugs are not coming on Venezuelan boats. Like the the the stated rationale doesn't quite make sense. Uh Madura is a bad guy. It's a bad regime. They've done terrible things to their people. But why are we doing this? Why now? Part of it, I think, is that Hexath [clears throat] um and Vance uh and and that whole core MAGA contingency really do believe that the United States has been spending its military power too much in the kind of distant corners of the world and it should be retreating to a kind of fortress America and that our hemisphere it's a very 19th century kind of conception. Our hemisphere is where should we should be we should be primarily engaged. So, okay, that means that, okay, you got to find some you got to find some issue or problem in the in in in the Americas. So, you look at Venezuela, they're the bad guys. Uh, I think the oil part is an important part of it. My understanding is that one of the things that the Trump administration has been trying to do with Venezuela is say to Maduro, if you will make a special deal with us on energy, we will we will relax you. you know, so part of this is the stick um which is meant to get Maduro to agree to do uh some kind of energy deal which would mean that he would have to in offense, you know, cancel his energy deals with Russia and China and and and other players. Apparently, he has not been willing to do that. And so that there's part of the what's going on here. Uh, you know, the part that's that's I've also heard one final part to this is that Marco Rubio has been looking for a portfolio as Secretary of State because most of what the Secretary of State does is currently being done by Trump's former real estate partner, Steve Woodco. Steve Whitkoff is the is the real secretary of state. So, Marco Rubio is looking for things to do and one of them is, you know, he's a big Venezuela hawk. He always has been to be fair to him. So it's a strange collection of reasons. Um, you know, you just always wonder with this kind of thing, have they thought through the fact that, you know, you could end up with a some kind of igniting a civil war in Venezuela, right? I mean, if something some if some part of the regime collapses, as we've learned from Iraq and Afghanistan, it doesn't mean you get liberal democracy and your Thomas Jefferson candid, you know, like candidate comes and takes control. What you end up with is the remnants of the old regime fight back. There's a new government in place. The place, you know, goes through a multi-year civil war. I'm not sure that's great for the United States. It feels as if or again another thesis is that Trump is able to kind of run these red [clears throat] lines or color outside the lines as long as the market keeps going up. And the thesis is that what's replaced the importance or value placed on character, fidelity, patriotism, decency has been replaced with if you make a lot of money, everything's forgiven. And as long as the NASDAQ and the Dow Jones Industrial Average are up and to the right, the whoever's in the office can pretty much do whatever they want. in America, it feels like to me, has become a giant bet on AI where almost our entire economic growth is based on investments and the market increases in value in AI. One, do you think there is something to the notion that we have a moral failing around the idolatry of the dollar and how do we restore more substantive values in America? and two just very curious to get your take on AI and what potential it represents to the upside and the downside. >> Yeah, that's a that's a a bunch of very important questions. So on AI, look, um I I feel like it's above my pay grade to to to know whether or not we, you know, when we get to AGI, it's going to be a complete transformation of the world as we know it and all. What I can say is um it's pretty clear that we are in a kind of arms race on AI and that part of the reason people these hyperscalers are spending is they don't want to let the other guy win because it's a kind of strange situation. Not each of them has their own definition of what it means to get to general intelligence. So it's like a shifting goal. It's a vague incoid goal. The goalpost is your own. But you have to spend you have to spend. you have to spend because otherwise Google will win or Microsoft will win or open AI will win or Anthropic will win. So, they're all engaging in this crazy race. It feels to me like it's not entirely clear that people understand how you would get a return on that investment. Um, and unlike a lot of these other booms in the past, you think of the railroad boom, the telecom boom, the infrastructure you're building is not going to last for a hundred years because 60% of the cost of building these data centers are the chips and the chips go get obsolete every 3 to four years. So, you're going to need a massive cash infusion every 3 to four years. So the whole thing feels very heady and uh you know like like it could easily it seems like you could easily get up one morning and say wait a minute you know we're spending trillions and we're we're expecting only tens of billions of dollars of of profit out of this. But it's possible that AI is so transformative that the normal rules don't apply. The most interesting thing to me about AI that you can see is that the Chinese are approaching it quite differently. They are going for not this race for AGI. They're really going for a much more targeted applied AI. How do we transform these various industries and b and businesses using AI? So it's much more practical and in one particular area they seem to be ahead which is they're trying to do real world AI that is not large language models but using robots. So you know this is a point that Fe Lee at Stanford the great um uh computer scientist always makes that human beings perceive the world not through language but through their eyes ears you know and that if robots could sense the world that way they would be incredibly powerful and Chinese AI is very focused on trying to get these marrying robots and AI so that you can automate factories on a scale and with productivity levels that would be just mindboggling you know so it's a very practical way of approaching AI I I suspect we are ahead but I wonder whether this Chinese approach is very ingenious in terms of being able to produce a kind of return on on investment and actual transformation of processes crucial processes within the economy and your final point which I just want to comment on because I really agree with it is uh this question of the idolatry of money. Uh which which then makes you ignore lots of other important characteristics that we have for thousands of years thought were important like honesty, bravery, courage, decency, you know, kindness. I think that I saw this happen in my lifetime. We're about the same age, Scott. So I want to toss this back to you and and ask if you agree. So when I came to America in the early ' 80s, what I was struck by was it was still a world in which of course businessmen were v admired enormously and and people you know thought that rich people were great and all that which by the way I thought was wonderful coming from a quasi socialist country uh that which was India in the 70s. Um but there was enormous respect for novelists you know people like Norman Maylor and Tom Wolf were huge figures in the America I came to there was enormous respect for academics people who were philosophers uh people were who were you know humanists Ellie Visel I remember once came to to college when I was there and it was a huge event um and there was a there was a real sense in which there was a richness of society that that honored different kinds of people for different skills that they had. The8s boom, you know, on Wall Street began to change that. And then the tech boom just completely obliterated it. And now we we only worship rich people and we think that rich people are philosophers, are prophets, they know everything about everything. you know they you know Peter Teal is not just a a good investor he's also brilliant about theology and philosophy and that's true of all these people we we we look at what their work habits are their study we want to know do they eat a banana in the morning because it must be that if if you know if Jeff Bezos eats a banana in the morning that must be the path to his wealth there's a kind of almost crazy idolatry that we're in right now >> the example that running through my mind was principal ukl son. When I was in sixth grade, this big handsome man used to drive up in his 240Z, which was the the coolest car in the world. And he was a big man, and he used to work out with us and play sports with us. He was our principal, and he used to show up and talk about how wonderful our teacher was. And he he was just kind and he used to hug people. We all wanted to be this guy. We all wanted to be this man of service, of generosity, of affection, and now I think their heroes are Elon Musk. It it just feels as if we have the wrong the wrong role models. Feels like the two of us, Fared, quite frankly, we have a debt. We've recognized so much prosperity, an unfair amount of prosperity being our age and being men in the United States. and that prosperity has not trickled down to younger generations and young men are really struggling. What What do you think we can do? What do you what do you what do you do as a father and what do you think we can do as a society to try and restore the same type of prosperity, opportunity, mental wellness that we have registered so much of and that young people, specifically young men seem to be in such short supply of. So I think at a societal level, this is something you've talked about, but I 100% agree with it. It's there has been a huge transfer of wealth from the from the young to the old in in almost every western society, but in particular in the United States, we spend $4 for every person over 65 compared to $1 for every person uh under 18. And it's because insidiously, I don't think anyone consciously did this, but we know old people vote. And by the way, people under 18 don't vote at all. And people who are between 18 and 30 vote very little. So we have the whole reward system, the economic reward system of this massive, you know, federal government all geared towards subsidizing the rich, penal, sorry, all geared towards subsidizing the old, the elderly, penalizing the young. And you know, we have to try and change that. But at a personal level, look, it's it's a it's a huge challenge. I think that we need to think more about ourselves, all of us. And I I really mean all of us and particularly parents as role models and ask ourselves what is the what is the impact we want to leave on the world and most important in that is not what you say it's what you do. So what I've been very conscious of is I have one son who was amazing kid. Um I I have always tried to just show him in what I did that I you know that I had these values that I believed in that that we that our friends were the kind of people who embodied those values that the the things we talked about when we honored something when we when we disapproved of something was that and you got to you got to you got to walk the walk. You can't just say it. Children are very good at picking up hypocrisy and they will discount anything you say if your actions are not aligned with that. And so you know in your in my own small small way I've tried to do that but I think you know you're absolutely right. We talked in on my show about this. One of the things Charlie Kirk got right was he understood the young men felt they needed a sense of purpose. They needed a sense of higher purpose and he was willing to give it to them. And I don't agree with a lot of the things he he believed in, but I think he got that right. He said, you know, get out of the bars and and and embrace your Bibles. You know, be a provider. Make sure that you're kind and decent to women. There was, you know, a kind of old-fashioned set of moral claims, but he was giving purpose to young men who need purpose. They need to feel that they are special and important and that they have power, but also responsibilities. So, if you can do that, you know, look, I as I said, I I think I I lucked out with my son who is who is amazing, but I but it's hard work and it's ongoing. >> If there was one economic or social policy magic wand test that you could immediately implement in the United States, what would it be? >> Gosh, that is a that is a great um that is a great challenge. I I think what I would do is in in some in some significant way uh provide young people with capital. Uh this could be a left and right policy. Provide young people with capital so they feel invested in the in the society. They feel invested in the success of the society. They understand how to save, you know, make it something that incentivizes saving and things like that. We basically need to think more long term. Um we need to be able to find a way to understand, you know, the the the time horizon of markets and and democracy is very short term. Uh and the game we're in is a very long-term game. >> And last question here, advice to your 25-year-old self. What did you get right? What did you get wrong? I think what I got right was uh that I I was able to find a way to do the thing I loved in a in a way that was that was good for my career. In other words, it wasn't just that I followed my passion. It's that I found a way to tailor my passion to something where there was a career there. you know, like I did I I was able to say, you know, this if I do it this way and if I if I work for uh these magazines and if I go on TV, I'll be able to do the things I love and make a living doing it. That's number one. Number two, I think what I got right was focus on family and close friends. Um really, particularly you and I are in this world, Scott, where you a lot of people want to be your friend. And I have never made the mistake of thinking that because somebody wants to be my friend, because I have a television show, they're really my friends. You know, that I I I have a very acute sense of if I if all this went away, my college buddies, the people who, you know, I've known for 30 or 40 years, they would stay with me, we would still be friends. But a lot of the glamour and the, you know, a lot of the the kind of celebrity uh uh friends that I that that or the acquaintances I have, that would all go away. And and that's just fine with me. I I I enjoy the ride, but I also know, you know, what my true north is. I I think what I probably I think what what I got wrong is I didn't do enough things when I was on the way up that were giving back uh or that were even just fundamentally of interest to me. I was a little too caught up with success success and in my case success I don't mean financial success. I mean you know just always moving up and making sure that this was a kind of career-wise the right thing to do. I think I should have done more things that were both interesting that were that would have an impact on society that you know just I should have had a broader definition of my success. In a way I was too insecure and anxious climbing the ladder. I should have realized you know what you'll you'll you'll be fine climbing the ladder. You might as well stop and smell the roses and help help a person across the you know across the street along the way. I now do it, but I didn't do it when I was when I was in my 20s and 30s. >> Yeah. You just summarize the last 30 years of my life. Stop and smell the roses and and in and be kind and have different definitions of success. Fred Zakaria is a journalist, author, and political commentator. He hosts Fared Zakaria GPS on CNN and as a columnist for the Washington Post. I don't say that I don't think I've said this maybe two people. I think you are a beautiful mind. I just I tune in every Sunday and you're you you are literally one of the only shows where I will stop it, rewind it such that I can parrot your comments because I find you're such an incisive thinker and a really I just um enjoy you have been able to do something I [music] I'm not able to do. You are able to puncture through your emotions and the politics to just the truth. I I I think you're a tremendous inspiration for young men and a literally a lighthouse in a storm of political [music] anxiety and biases that it is so hard to um see the forest for the trees. Very much appreciate you. Appreciate your work and appreciate you coming on. >> As that wonderful Jewish saying goes, Scott, from your lips to [music] God's ears. Thank you so much. I'm humbled. Uh but I'll take it. [music] >> Thanks, brother. >> [music]