What is your sense as you reverse engineer activities in the Middle East in terms of its impact on the US political landscape? We've seen the impact that America's failures in the last two decades in Iraq and Afghanistan and the failure of the Arab Spring in 2011 to bring about democratic change, the impact that's had on American politics. You know, it used to be that um Republicans were national security hawks and and more supportive of of US military interventions. Now, you know, a strong wing of uh Trump's base are um you know, they wouldn't like the term uh isolationist. They would call themselves restrainers or non-interventionists. But that's an important part of his political base. Now that is probably um a majority view because it's also it's a widely held view on on the left as well that you know America should just kind of stay out of um military uh interventions especially in the Middle East. [Music] Welcome to a bonus episode of the Prop God. What's happening? A ceasefire brokered by President Donald Trump is now in place after a 12-day war between Israel and Iran. The region remains on edge as both sides claim victory and questions grow around how long the calm will last and also what actually happened here and was it effective ineffective. In today's episode, we speak with Kareem Sajapur, a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace specializing in Iran and US foreign policy. We discuss with Kareem what triggered the latest conflict, how it might shape the future of US diplomacy in the region, and what comes next for Iran. So with that, here's our conversation with Kareem Sajapore. Kareem, where does this podcast find you? I'm in the Logan Circle neighborhood of Washington DC. Nice. And how long have you lived in DC? I've been in DC uh for basically the last two decades. I had previously been based uh in the Middle East. I lived in Tehran, and Beirut uh and I I grew up in uh mostly in Michigan. Interesting. So, did your parents live during the revolution or did you live in Toron after that? My family was one of the few families that came to the US before the revolution. My father was a medical doctor and he immigrated to the US in the late 1950s. Uh my mom grew up both in Iran and in Italy and they they they came together. They settled in the US uh in the late60s and I think they probably always thought they would one day go back to Iran. Then when the revolution happened they they stayed put and and we and I grew up mostly in the US. I spent years living in Latin America and in in Europe and and Middle East but last two decades in DC truly a global citizen. So let's bust right into it. Uh for now it appears the ceasefire between Israel and Iran continues to hold. Trump says the war is done. What give us your sense of the state of play? Because I think one of the frustrating things about this conflict war is that I went back and I looked at headlines the first few days after a war began or a conflict and what they were reporting then was often times just not accurate. And it feels even less it feels like there's even less veracity. Like have we set their nuclear program back seven days or seven years? I literally don't know who to turn to. So I'd be curious to just get your uh kind of appraisal no mercy no malice overview of the state of play right now as it relates to this this war. Sure Scott. So first let me give like one minute of historic context which is that you know these two countries Iran and Israel in my view are actually more natural partners than they are natural adversaries. There's a ancient history of affinity between the Persians and the Jews. You know, Cyrus the Great, the ancient Persian king is revered in the Old Testament for liberating the Jews from Babylonian captivity. Prior to the 1979 revolution, the two countries had good partnership. And even now, if you look at them, um you know, in contrast to most modern geopolitical conflicts like China and Taiwan, Russia, Ukraine, Israel, Palestine, there's no direct land or border disputes between Iran and Israel. The two countries in my view have complimentary interests. Israel is a tech power. Iran is an energy power and there's natural basis for cooperation. What happened in 1979 was that Iran went virtually overnight from a US allied monarchy led by the sha to a viscerally anti-American anti-Israeli uh theocracy ruled by the Ayatollah Kumeni. And since then there's basically been three ideological pillars of Iran's 1979 revolution. and it's death to America, death to Israel and the mandatory hijab, the veiling of women which called the flag of the Islamic revolution. So going now to the present, the latest uh battle between Iran and Israel may be over for now, but the war will continue so long as you have a regime in Iran whose entire identity is premised on replacing Israel with Palestine. I bring a bias here and my bias is that I feel like one of the biggest unlocks that Americans don't consider it's not in their lexicon or their dialogue is the potential uh for the Iran and America to be allies again because and this is pure anecdotal evidence. I grew up in Los Angeles. So I went to UCLI, largest concentration of Iranians, I think outside of Tyrron, and uh several of my closest friends in at UCLA were Iranian. And it always struck me, my comment about Iranians was they were more American than Americans. A love of education, a love of money. And I say that in a positive way. total capitalists, entrepreneurs, a love of graduate education, an appreciation for ambition and competitiveness. And just so that the most American kids we have here are Iranians. And when I see the when I see the lack of popularity of the Islamic regime or the Islamic Republic, what is your sense for whether or not when we took this military action, there's always a fear that you have a rallying around the flag when you're attacked? What's your sense of the Iranian uh that kind of man or woman on the streets reaction to this military action? It's an important question. Uh and you know my view about this is that what tends to happen in these uh dramatic instances of you know military attack or or military conflagration uh with an external power is that it tends to accentuate Iranians existing political views. So if last week or two weeks ago you were a supporter of the government and I suspect government supporters represent about 15 to 20% of society, it's not a popular regime, then you're you are have even more fodder obviously to hate uh America and Israel for the military invasion of Iran. If you were a critic or an opponent of the Iranian regime and you said, you know, this is a regime which always puts its ideological objectives over the national interests of us and the well-being of the Iranian people, then you have even more reason to to dislike the regime. I think in the near term what happens is that the regime has gotten a kind of a what I would describe as a temporary sugar high. But when the dust settles three months, six months, nine months from now, um I think people will go back to living under this politically repressive, socially repressive police state which is a profoundly mismanaged and economy which you know Iran could be in my view should be a G20 nation under proper management. This is a country which has enormous human capital as you were referring to uh has enormous natural resources. It is not a country which just came to be in the 20th century. It has a 2500 year old civilization and identity. And you know, I think Iranians will will eventually revert back to that profound sense of discontent. And I'll give you a concrete example of that, Scott. Um you may remember in January of 2020, Iran's top uh revolutionary guard commander Sulmani was assassinated by President Trump. And many people then said ah this is uh you know the the country is rallying around the flag and there were mass protests in Iran. What happened two years later? Two years later there was a young woman called Masa Amini that was detained and killed in custody for allegedly showing too much of her hair. And that set off a massive nationwide protest in Iran which persisted over 6 months and had the regime on its heels. So um you know I don't doubt that you know many people took took umbrage to the US dropping 30,000 lb bunker bombs but ultimately you know vast majority of Iranians as I I say they want to be South Korea they don't want to be living under North Korea. Let's talk about the next generation. So how many 85year-old theocrat and the next level down I got to be thinking when the Mossad is able to penetrate I mean people talk about how Israel rules the skies over Iran. I think what's probably more frightening for the leadership in Iran is it appears they rule the ground. And what I mean by that is that uh the the signal uh I think they've sent is that on a moment's notice an email to a secure device to a an asset spy on the ground in Iran. We can kill any of you. And I think Americans even have trouble relating to that. Imagine if all of the joint chiefs, the secretaries of the Navy, the every fivestar general we have in the Air Force within 30 minutes were all murdered and it's clear, okay, they can take out anybody. My question I was when I'm when I've been on corporate boards, my question is the strength of a company is not based on the CEO. It's based on do you have zero or eight people who could step into the CEO's shoes? That's a sign of a strong corporate governance and a strong organization. What do you think the next generation looks like in terms of the of the regime? And is this a house of cards with an 85-year-old? What happens when he dies, assuming he's not overthrown? He's an old man. Um what does the next generation look like? And is there a chill of what have I signed up for here? It's an important question. And you know, Ayat is actually now 86. He's the longest serving autocrat in the world. He's been ruling since 1989. He hasn't left Iran since 1989. And you know, you put yourself in his shoes right now. He's living in a bunker. We all have known, you know, 85, 86 years old. You have limited physical, mental stamina. And he's expected to lead this three-part war against the greatest superpower in the world, the United States, the greatest military power, uh, in the Middle East, um, Israel, and against his own population. And he is doing that at at a time when you mention his top military commanders have been assassinated in their own bedrooms or in their own bunkers. And so as you mentioned this really slows down the wheels of state when it's a state which essentially needs to act quickly to uh address an external or internal security threat. And when people get the notifications on their phones, they don't know if that's coming from their higher up command or it's coming from the Mossad. So it's a it's in my view what I would describe as a Swiss cheese regime. It has so many holes in it penetrated by Israeli intelligence. Now what happens after the supreme leaders passing? You know Iban Khalun the great uh uh North African uh uh philosophers called sometimes called the father of of sociology. He came out with a theory decade centuries ago uh in 13th century which he called asabia and it's now known in kind of modern business uh literature you may be familiar with it as the power cycle theory and essentially what he said is that empires are built and destroyed over three generations. The first generation, they have fire in the belly. They come, they they build it. Second generation watched what the first generation did, so they managed to preserve it. But by the third generation, by no fault of their own, you know, they're soft. They're they're princlings. They're born in the palace. They weren't born with that fire in the belly. You know, the example I commonly use in in the American business context is Walmart, right? Sam Walton uh through his thrift and grit built this amazing company. you know, second generation is is is is preserved it. Now, you know, his grandchildren were born multi-billionaires. So, it's clear, you know, they they they weren't born with that same grit. But now, going back to the Islamic Republic is the last of the Moheakans. He's the last of the first generation leaders in the Islamic Republic. And they don't have any great options for succession. in part because this is a society which is thoroughly secularized over the last 46 years. You know the best way to secularize a population is to uh rule them with a um repressive corrupt theocracy which is ruling from a moral pedestal. You know that's insulting to people in a way that living up under your run-of-the-mill dictatorship is in some ways less insulting. you know, Vladimir Putin doesn't have any pretensions of being, you know, God's representative on earth, whereas, you know, Islamic Republic's leadership, they have these pretensions of of moral superiority. So, the question is, you know, does if the regime manages to keep it together and they don't implode like the Soviet Union did, which is, you know, a big question. Is the next strong man in Iran going to be wearing a turban and being another Ayatollah or is it more likely to be someone from the security forces with a military or intelligence background? My sense is that even if they try to anoint um a cleric as the next supreme leader, that person is likely going to be a transitional figure much like Boris Yelson was in the postviet Union. and that if the system manages to keep it together, more likely we're we're we're going to see someone with a military and intelligence background, not someone wearing a turban. I want to outline a thesis to you from someone who's just obviously observing this from abroad and has a limited view into it. But my gener if someone said, "All right, summarize what's going on here." Where you have someone who's literally running to stay out of prison and the best way to stay in office is to get people to rally around the flag in the current administration. And the easiest way to accomplish that is to go on a constant war footing, which results in whether or not you think it was the right idea to respond um in Gaza, which I do believe it it absolutely was the right decision. And now most people including I think a very large segment of the Israeli populace and former prime ministers are saying it has just gone too far. And then after diminishing or neutering the proxies of Iran, which is understandable, uh going in and convincing their your ally to come in behind you, who comes in behind you with what I would describe as what looks to me like increasingly a performative attack. uh that now there's there's reports that the majority of the enriched uranium was transported out of these facilities and it was a little bit of a uh a president very focused on his image jealous of the macho light that Netanyahu was basking under. So came in with a performative attack which then inspired a performative response where many ordered the an attack on bases in Qatar in Iraq and my understanding is gave Qatar and US forces a heads up that this was about to happen such that he could flex and say see I responded but not risk any real collateral damage that would inspire an escalation. this whole thing, this whole chapter, the word I would use to describe the last two weeks, performative. Your thoughts? So, a couple things. Number one, um, you know, I've been teaching a class at Georgetown University for years in the Master School of Foreign Service. And I always joke on the first day with my students that if you really want to understand the Middle East, you're better off Middle East, you're better off studying psychology than political science because so much of this region is shaped not by the national interests of states, but by kind of the manas and political uh ambitions of of strong men. And in the case of this current war, America, Israel, uh, and the Islamic Republic of Iran, much of what's transpired over the last few weeks is, I think, driven by the person of Donald Trump and his political imperatives, the person of Benjamin Netanyahu and the person of Ayat, not necessarily, as I said from the outset, the national interests of these places. Now one framework I use to think about certainly the relationship between President Trump and Ayat there's a wonderful essay which the British philosopher Isaiah Berlin wrote in 1953 which is called the hedgehog and the fox and he essentially puts human beings into two buckets. He said um you know hedgehogs really have one big idea, one great passion and foxes uh know many things. They do many things and his example of the quintessential hedgehog was Karl Marx. His example of the prototypical fox was William Shakespeare. Now how does that apply to Trump and toy? Ayat is the prototypical hedgehog. He has basically one great passion, one big idea, resistance. resistance against America, resistance against Israel, death to America, death to Israel. Trump, on the other hand, is someone who I don't think he knows many things, but he says many things and he's had a profound um you know, I I don't know what you would describe it. I I I call him the Jackson Pollock of foreign policy. Um, you know, he goes from one month ago he was in Riad denouncing those previous administrations who who engaged in military interventions in the Middle East. This he ridiculed them and he said, you know, there were regime changers who destroyed far more um I'm sorry, there were nation builders who destroyed far more nations than they built and interventionists who had no idea about the reality of their own society. One month later after uh uh Prime Minister Netanyahu had had taken military action as you said um Trump saw that it was perceived to be very successful. Netanyahu is getting, you know, great reviews on Fox News and, you know, he wanted to be associated with that. And so, um, I think we will look back years from now and Scott, you know, when you're watching these things in real time, um, in the Middle East, as as we've seen, you know, if we were having this conversation in spring of 2003, we would say the Iraq war is, you know, a great success, right? We would we took out Saddam's army in in in three weeks. Five years later, things look very differently. So, years from now, things could look very differently. But I do think when the history of this war is written, much of it um will be about um the psychology and political calculations and domestic political expediencies of these three men, Netanyahu, Trump and rather than the interests of nation states. So, another thesis I'd like to put forward and get your reaction to, I feel as if the unsung hero in this or the unsung force here is the Ukrainian army. What do I mean by that? If Russia had barreled into Keev as Putin's generals were guaranteeing and immediately Ukraine fell and Russia held this perception and reputation as this fierce fighting force not to be trifled with to be very scared of that Syria would not have fell and we would have thought twice as have would have Netanyahu and perhaps would have received more military, logistical and perceptual support around its surfacetoair capabilities and neither Israel nor the US would have had the confidence or the ability to do what they had done had Russia still been intact in terms of its uh actual and perceived power. Your thoughts? Well, I think that's one important data point among others. I mean the other important data point is what happened on October 7th 2023 when uh Yaha Sinir and Hamas invaded Israel which you know turned out to be one of the most profound miscalculations in modern history because you know they thought that that was going to delegitimize Israel and lead to its eventual demise. And what we've seen in the last year and a half is exactly the opposite. And you know Iran's leadership Iran Ayat was the only leader in the world that praised the Hamas attack of October 7th. And then you know Iran uh kind of unleashed its its other proxies like Hezbollah, the Houthis and Yemen to commence this multifront war with Israel and those proxies have been decimated the last year and a half. So um that uh was also an important factor. But back to Ukraine and Zalinski. Um, one of the uh most important observations that stayed with me over the years about geopolitics is an observation which Henry Kissinger um wrote in his memoirs that he said you know before he went into government when he became secretary of state and national security advisor he was a professor at Harvard and he thought that history was driven by impersonal forces. you know, nations basically follow their own interests regardless of who's in power. And he said after he served in government, he reached the opposite conclusion, which is that the individual profoundly shapes history. Academics oftenimes don't like this because they call it, you know, the great man theory of history. But in I've also come to around Kissinger's worldview that the individual has a profound impact on history, leadership has a profound impact on history. And so your point about Ukraine for me um you know obviously the the incredible resolve of the Ukrainian people is is critical but the person of President Zilinski is someone for me who who has played um an incredibly important role in the history of his nation. And then we saw you know just a year prior to that and perhaps it was one reason why Vladimir Putin invaded was that um in Afghanistan you know it was a it was a country a president who he fled the the the country within you know 24 48 hours and the entire system collapsed. So it just goes to you know both in business and in in politics and geopolitics the importance of leadership. So I'll go even further a field. we had what was sort of a political earthquake with Zoron Mandani um winning the Democratic primary and I wonder how much of that is a new generation of American voters quite frankly very fed up with Israel and that this was not only an outstanding campaign run by someone who really understood new media representing youth a a push back on the established democratic machine what is your sense is you reverse engineer activities in the Middle East in terms of its impact on the US political landscape, what's happening both in Iran and Israel and the dynamics there. Do you think it will how do you see it reverse engineering to to what happens here in the United States? So that's an important question. Uh let me react in a couple ways. Number one, we've seen the impact that America's failures in the last two decades in Iraq and Afghanistan and the failure of the Arab Spring in 2011 to bring about democratic change, the impact that's had on American politics whereby um you know, it used to be that um Republicans were national security hawks and and more supportive of of US military interventions. Now, you know, a strong wing of uh Trump's base are um you know, they wouldn't like the term uh isolationist. They would call themselves restrainers or non-interventionists, but that's an important part of his political base now, including I would probably put in that category Vice President Vance um and people like Tucker Carlson. And so um that is probably um a majority view because it's also it's a widely held view on on the left as well that you know America should just kind of stay out of um military uh interventions especially in the Middle East. Now second with regards to the Israeli Palestinian conflict you know um it when I first started doing this work Israel was uh a bipartisan issue in Washington. you know that whenever there was a bill in Congress about Israel's security it was often times like you know 99 to to to one or 990 with one abstension uh in support of it and that's starting to change a little bit and as I said it's not only on the left it's more predominantly on the left but even there are folks on on the right um as I said that wing of the party like Tucker Carlson who say listen Israel is a strong country um we've been giving it many billions dollars of of aid over the years and it can take care of itself. We don't need need to be fighting wars for it. The other important factor is how people consume media and news nowadays. And the reality Scott is you have um what 15 million is it about 1.5 million Jews living in the world between you know Israel and United States and diaspora communities and Europe and and Australia and you have probably what 1.2 two billion Muslims. And so though the the the the disparity in terms of what is produced on Tik Tok and Instagram and Twitter about the news of the Middle East, especially when the images and videos are so dramatic and they appear, you know, very one-sided and in David versus Goliath, a Palestinian uh population which has suffered, you know, perhaps over 50 60,000 casualties now, and an Israeli uh prime minister who, you know, is is widely disliked even within his own uh society, let alone globally. And so I I do agree with you that the the the Democratic uh primary uh mayoral primary in New York is an important signpost for any supporter of Israel in the United States because if you're losing New York City and so much of the the debate uh political debate uh in that election was not about New York City, it was about Israel Palestine. um you know that is in my my view um if you're strong support of Israel that's that's a five alarm fire. You obviously you teach you're in DC you see kind of the human capital that goes into our foreign policy apparatus. I'm always consistently impressed by the human capital that decides to go into US foreign policy and decides to not go into what would probably be much more financially lucrative careers. At the same time, our security operatus right now, I would argue, seems sclerotic and just they can't even get their own story straight. What is your sense of the current state of our security apparatus and our foreign policy engine if you will as you as you see the human capital going into it whether it's I would imagine it's less attractive right now but I bring a bias to the table but give us a sense for the strength or lack thereof of our foreign policy and to the extent you're comfortable talking about it our security apparatus. So one place where you know I've always been very impressed by the human capital of our leadership is our military. Um you know especially our military institutions the great you know in my view these are great American institutions. West Point you know Annapolis the Naval Academy and our top generals. I'm always impressed by you know the fact that presidents and politicians change but there's a consistent level of excellence uh from those top military commanders. and not only um you know excellence in in um in terms of their discipline and preparedness but you know often times their character so I would rate them highly. I've also, you know, over the years when you I've been in DC for many years, so you interact with many different institutions, Pentagon, um the intelligence community, state department, you know, I think one of the challenges we have and it's natural because the US government is an enormous bureaucracy, but it's um you know, getting talented people in is a challenge. When, for example, I'll give you some concrete examples. I have very talented friends who are of Iranian origin. You know, one in particular was born and raised in New York City, would be a huge asset to the US government, wanted to serve in the US government. And for four years, he was waiting for security clearance, which never happened, never got that security clearance. And the way they conduct these security clearances are are totally antiquated where, you know, you have one person going and interviewing 500 different people and asking them questions. you know, my view this is uh uh ripe for disruption from a company like Palunteer that you know hand over all of your you know computer your social media and we we we can we can do this much quicker. So so that's one example. The other example is that um the US foreign service for example, you know, it's you you start off and you may go stamp uh passports and and Bangladesh for a couple years and then you're you're you know off to another assignment and the pace of professional advancement can be quite slow. Um and it's not the same excitement as you know going and joining uh a startup uh AI startup or Silicon Valley startup. So um I I I think that um people should feel that you know there is um you know very high caliber people we have in government. Um but um you know a lot of the best minds these days government is less attracted. The final thing I'll say on this Scott is that you know I'll give you an example. We have probably uh in the US government there's you know probably upwards of a billion dollars dedicated to strategic communications that is almost irrelevant now when you have a president who's essentially uh tweeting or you know putting on truth social his foreign policy positions and ambitions you know it's been rendered virtually irrelevant so that I think there's a great sense of uh um demoralization among many folks in government that the system isn't functioning like it used to be and like it should if you were going to make any bets around what's going to happen in the Middle East recognizing this is a almost an impossible region to predict but do you have any general themes or outcomes that you think are more likely than not? Let me venture a couple broad thoughts. Number one is that in my view this is a region which is never going to experience real stability and security so long as you have a government in Iran whose organizing principle is death to America and death to Israel. as long as you have a government in Iran that, you know, as Kissinger wants to put it, behaves as a as a as a cause rather than a nation state because it's a huge country. Iran, it has enormous resources and if it wants to spend all of its um capital and talent dedicated to the business of destruction and destabilization, it can continue to do that. So, that's one um big prediction. Second is that in my view there at some point will be a reckoning in Iran and there's a wonderful book on revolutions which um uh a professor called Jack Goldstone wrote. Goldstone likens revolutions to earthquakes. He said you know we know where fault lines lie. We know which countries are highly seismic but we can never uh say with certainty you know when an earthquake is going to happen. And that's true about Iran as well. This is a regime which in my view it's like the latestage Soviet Union. It's a zombie regime. It has a dead ideology. It survives with the repression. It's on borrowed time. At some point there is going to be a reckoning inside Iran. But you know I can't tell you when exactly that's going to happen nor can you say for certainty what is going to be the outcome. Um you know we know from history that authoritarian transitions often times don't end in democracy. only in about one in four cases end in democracy. More often it ends in another form of authoritarianism. But even if that's the case in Iran, you could have a system which you know evolves into a regime which is or government which is nationalist government much like you know the choice that Deng Xiaoping made in China in the 1970s. Put uh the national interests and economic interests before cultural revolution. Um and you know that is um in my view the the kind of the key to understanding the region. The final thing I'd say here is that a big question is Saudi vision 2030 and you know to the the extent to which Saudi Arabia succeeds and Muhammad bin Salman succeeds in transforming his nation and I'll tell you um you know I wrote a piece in foreign affairs about this last fall. Um that is a tall order uh to for you know young man modern leader to try to take what was you know up until recently very traditional society and rapidly uh modernize it and I think it's in our interest and US interest that he succeed um but you know we have the example of the sha of Iran in 1979 also modern leader trying to rapidly transform a society and what we know from history is that popular tumult doesn't tend to happen when people feel most destitute. Popular to tends to happen when people's expectations have risen but then those expectations are unfulfilled. It's called um you know the Jcur theory or revolutions of rising expectations. So an ideal outcome Scott in the Middle East would be an Iran which transforms into something modern and then Saudi Arabia which succeeds in in transforming and in realizing vision 2030. A disaster outcome would be vision 2030 failing and having an outcome similar to what happened in Iran 1979 and this current regime in Iran managing to kind of retrench itself and and ruling for for years to come. Let me be more direct. Isn't there a much greater likelihood of peace and stability without Netanyahu or Kamei? Aren't these two obstacles to sustain a sustainable peace in the Middle East? So I would add one more person there which is the the leader of the Palestinian Authority Mahmud Abbas because what a lot of the uh Gulf leadership will tell you especially you know even in Saudi Arabia um you know we there Saudis will tell you that prior to October 7th 2023 they were very close to doing a normalization deal with Israel and that was in part why Hamas um invaded Israel when they did to to sabotage those pro prospects and they succeeded because it became almost impossible for MBS to sell a normalization deal to his own people while Israel was was was you know bombing Gaza. But I I think that has to go um uh for Gulf countries to feel confident that you know the Palestinians are capable of of presenting themselves in a in a cohesive way and and having strong leadership. uh Mahmud Abbas will have to go. And I think many would also argue that so long as Prime Minister Netanyahu is in power that um that normalization deal between Israel and Saudi Arabia is unlikely to happen. Sort of a lightning round here which is which is dangerous with geopolitics. Increased US intervention or additional US intervention more likely to happen or not happen? I think it's more likely to happen if we don't get a clear account of where Iran's highlyenriched uranium is and we don't have access to their nuclear facilities because they may actually say, "Now that you bombed us, we're going to cut off access to the inspectors." In 6 months, do you think the attack uh on these nuclear facilities will be seen as having been successful or that its success was inflated? You know, Scott, we we I think applied history is is is useful here. And unfortunately, over the last two decades, we look back at most military interventions in the Middle East as having done more dam more more more harm than good. And you know, I I think there's a there's a real danger that that could be the case with this one as well. So, we always like to end with um we have a lot of young people listen to the podcast. It strikes me you have a really cool job that you you found something that you have this unique skill set for having been lived all over the world understanding these cultures obviously very intelligent and work at this interesting you know this interesting institution likely make a very good living do really interesting things like how did you get from an 18-year-old um you know man What were sort of the pivot points? How did you how did you find? How did you get in the seat you're in now? What were the seminal forces decisions that gave you the opportunity to kind of land where you are right now? Because I look at I bet there's a lot of young men and young women who look at what you're doing and think, you know what, that just that's just a really interesting, rewarding way to make a living. How did you get from there to here? So had you asked me at age you know 13 uh what I envisioned for my work u I I genuinely this would have not been in the top thousand things I thought I would do because I had zero interest in the Middle East and zero interest in Iran you know despite the fact that my my parents are Iranian it was it was not easy to you know you were not proud being you're not proud of growing up Iranian in the 1980s in the United States right in the aftermath just to press pause there. The amount of outright bigotry against Iranians in the US after the hostage crisis was staggering. I remember being in Westwood when I was at UCLA and walking down and there was this I think it was a disco called Dillons. We had a disco and they put up a sign that said Iranians not welcome. And fortunately our institutions held and they were forced to take that sign down. But that's how comfortable a retail establishment was of being that bigoted back then. I'm sorry. Go ahead, Kareem. You know, you know, and Scott, that wasn't my experience as a young kid because I grew up in a community, very friendly community. And you know, my father uh used to tell us from the time we were small. My father immigrated to US in the late 1950s and he loved uh Iranian culture. He was a great um patriot, Persian patriot, but he also loved the United States. And from the time we were small, he would tell us, you know, you live in the greatest country in the world. And the reason why I think he said that is, you know, the the reason why a lot of immigrants have because they have something else to compare it to, right? It wasn't that they they took it for granted. He had lived uh in a different context. But you know, I grew up with no interest in in in the Middle East and Iran because, you know, what did it represent? It was Ayatollah Kumeni and uh burning American flags, death to America. I was, you know, interested in basketball. I went to University of Michigan. I played soccer there. For me, what happened was, you know, I I started to get experiences living abroad. I lived in uh Mexico as an exchange student when I was in high school. I spent my junior year in college in Italy where as I mentioned my mom grew up. Um then when I was um 22, I received I I I won an essay competition from an organization which I believe is still around. I would recommend young people to Google it. It's called the circumnavigators club. This was 1999 and I won a um a scholarship, a grant to travel around the world to actually circumn the globe. My research project in 1999 was called the internet's impact on global communication. One of the places that they they they wanted me to go. I had actually no interest in visiting the Middle East and up until then I had not been to Iran because the the war with Iraq had happened and you know I would have been uh um recruited into the Iranian army. So I never had gone to Iran but I went to Egypt and I loved Egypt. That was an eye-opening experience for me and I became really enthralled uh in the Middle East after that and then um I worked at National Geographic. That was my first job out of college and you know that uh you know it kind of uh continued to fuel my love of of of adventure and the world. And then I spent the summer of 2001 in Iran, my first summer there. And I lived with my 99year-old grandmother. I traveled all over um the country. was a wonderful experience. And then fast forward about a month later, September 2001 was my first uh semester in graduate school. Um studying Middle East affairs. 911 happens. And it then became kind of very clear to me that this is something I wanted to dedicate my my career and my my life to in part because as you said from the outset, Scott, Iran is a nation with enormous potential. this should be a G20 nation and America and Iran should be natural partners. They are not natural adversaries. So for me that is what has uh fueled my passion and I remember when I was at Michigan I was a I was a classmate of Tom Brady um in undergrad. He was the first guy I met in freshman orientation and we had um a biology professor who said to us on the very last day, I was meant to be premed but I failed my premed classes. So I I went into political science and and I had this we had this biology lecture. I didn't remember much about the class, but I just remember the last the thing he said on the last day of class. He said, you know, it's that old cliche that if you find something you're really passionate about, then you'll never have to work a day in your life. And he said, you know, sometimes I'm waiting for calls from the lab, you know, for pending experiments, and I'll leave my lawn mower going. You know, I just forget about it. I'm so passionate about it. And um you know this uh uh career it's um can be very emotional. You're constantly talking about repression and and war and and you know very um hard hard topics. Um but you know it's um something which at the end of the day also it it provides real meaning. So what I'd say to people is you know going abroad is is if you're interested in a career in international affairs that's one way to distinguish yourself. you know, get ground experience. It's important to learn other languages and master those languages. And then final thing I'd say, Scott, is that I think it's critical for young people to read books, read history. Those are the kind of the macronutrients of of a kind of a great scholar or analyst. If you're constantly just reading tweets or watching Tik Tok videos, that's you know nourishing yourself with candy and it's not going to sustain you or distinguish you from your peers. Read book. Kareem Sajapur is a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace specializing in Iran and US foreign policy. Uh Kareem, right away we thought we were getting so many muddled messages about what to believe or not believe around this conflict and your name came up independently from different sources two or three times. So whatever you're doing, you've established a reputation as a real honest broker. So uh well done. Very much appreciate you coming on and uh hope that you'll join us again. Absolutely. Thank you for having me, Scott. Love being with you. [Music] [Music]