If you're trying to design systems to help improve the health of all Americans, you look at the people who are struggling most, and it's low-income people in this country who don't have good access to, you know, fruits, vegetables, healthful foods, um who don't have access to parks for their children to run around and play, educational access, those things. Um and so getting those people just kind of like baseline access, right? Housing access for safe housing. Um so I don't know if exactly if a $25 minimum wage would do it. I'd have to see data on that, but it's definitely getting resources to people so that they can have baseline health insurance, they can have baseline food access, they can have baseline safe housing, um, so that they can experience health as well. >> Dr. Nurk, where does this podcast find you? >> Denver, Colorado. >> Let's bust into our first question, and it's a big one. What in your view is the state of public health in America? I would say the state of public health in America. So I think um and this is I'm sure we'll talk about you know the maja movements and how how that's kind of like defined the the the conversation around public health right now. But um I got into this field about 15 years ago and my main goal and and my research focus was really chronic disease prevention because um even at that time we we you could look around and and look at the data and it was very clear that we um you know we had done a really wonderful job at um tackling infectious disease and um and getting a public health infrastructure in place that undoubtedly um impacted our health in in wonderful ways. Right. we we saw a huge increase in life expectancy um because of a lot of our public health infrastructure um but a as we were living longer we were also seeing um higher rates of chronic disease and so we were particularly lifestyle related chronic diseases which is what I started um my research focus in and so what I would say is right now what we're looking at is a situation where um about half of Americans are living with at least one chronic health condition um and uh many Americans 30% of Americans ans are living with, you know, more than one, so many many different health chronic or chronic health conditions. And a lot of those are lifestyle related chronic diseases, right? And what that means is our diet, our um our physical activity, our behaviors are impacting our disease risk. Um and so I think that what a lot of people in public health right now or or in kind of this maha movement right now are really getting right is that we do have um a big issue with these lifestyle related chronic diseases. Um, and so, so what I would say is when we're thinking about public health, public health are really these systems that are looking at the health of all Americans. And when you're looking at the health of all Americans, the health the health of Americans is struggling. It's not struggling um evenly across the board. What we see are pretty large health disparities in America. Um, and and we can kind of talk about that, but a lot of our health issues are really disproportionately affecting particular groups in America. Um but we are seeing these big health um these these big health issues in our country um that I think that people are rightfully concerned about. >> You've said that behaviors are important but behaviors basically influence outcomes within the system. Talk about some of those systems in the US that make bad behaviors even worse in terms of their outcomes. >> Yeah. What I would say is individual behaviors. So we we make individual choices within systems. And so those systems can either be set up for the most people to succeed or for the most people to fail. And what we have done in our country is really built systems um for the most people to fail from from a health perspective. Um you know because and and there's a reason for that because we um have really built our systems for profitability. So if you think about you know if I'm working with you one-on-one on your health, some of the things that we're going to discuss, we're going to talk about your diet, right? What foods are you eating? Your physical activity, are you are you moving around? Your healthcare access, um your stress levels, your sleep levels. Those are all things we would work or work on on an individual level where the where where um public health plays a role is there's systems that are impacting each of those kind of individual choices you're making. So just from the food system for example, which is kind of my bread and butter, the the food system in our country by some estimates is about 70% ultrarocessed food right now. And so we are heavily reliant in the United States on these prepackaged ultrarocessed foods. And the reason for that is well there's a lot of reasons for that but it's really because our food system has been built over the course of several decades um for profitability. So from our agricultural system which is where the food system starts what we grow to what we end up marketing and put putting on shelves and marketing to people has all been kind of designed for maximum profitability profitability and growth. So, you know, in the 70s, um we we kind of changed our agricultural policies to start really focusing in on these um commodity crops. And so, um Secretary of Agriculture at that time, he had this go big or go home um kind of like model. And the idea was we wanted to start growing in in mass um these commodity crops, mostly corn, wheat, and soy, because we grow corn, wheat, and soy very well in this country. And they're really good exports for us. And so we make a lot of money from them. Um, and so that's what started happening. And so we started kind of get coming away from small local farms, um, small family-owned farms to large aggra business. And and that really dominates our agricultural system now. And so, you know, we grow, um, we subsidize that as a government, too. So, we we really incentivize farmers to be growing these commodity crops and and that's kind of decimated local food systems. And so when we did that, you know, then we kind of came into the 1980s and the era of deregulation under Reagan and then, you know, Clinton as well. Um, and and the idea was, you know, we're going to you had the shareholder value movement, which was kind of like let's maximize profitability and growth at the expense of all other values. And so one of those values is the health of the food that you're creating, right? And so when you do that, when you have all these like confluence of factors, you create a food system that is really built for corporate profit. So you are heavily reliant on these prepackaged ultrarocessed foods that can travel far because you don't have good local food systems. You know, you said my my husband's from Romania, so I'm very familiar. We we go back most summers and I'm very familiar with kind of like um the food systems in a lot of countries in Europe, and it's just very different than what we have here. You know, I I'll walk down the street with my mother-in-law and go to the local farmers market, which is not what we consider farmers markets in the United States. It's just the market, which is like where everybody goes for their produce from like local farms that are around there. Um, and it's much cheaper actually than to go to the actual grocery store, which is very different than here. We have I live in Denver, so we have farmers markets, but they're they're incredibly expensive. Um, and and they kind of, you know, they sell like goods and things like that. So, we kind of get did get did away from these local food systems. And so, when you do that, you are heavily reliant on these prepackaged foods, which require, by the way, food additives to keep them shelf stable. Um, and for corporations, food corporations that are trying to maximize profit under this kind of system, um, they're going to swap and use cheap ingredients. So, you know, for example, we subsidize corn in this country. Now, a lot of that corn doesn't actually end up in our in our food system. A lot of it goes towards animal agriculture and then um fuel. But, because we subsidize corn, high fructose corn syrup is quite cheap for us as a sugar source. This is just one example versus cane sugar. So what these food corporations did was they started using high fructose corn syrup as their sugar source for the only the only reason for that was because it was cheaper, not because of any other reason. Um but they were trying to maximize profits. And so you do that by cutting cost of of ingredients. Um and so what we have designed kind of intentionally with policy has been this food system that is not really conducive for our health, but it's um conducive for corporate profits. And then you can go across the board, Scott, and you can look at, you know, you can look at physical activity, you can look at stress, you can look at sleep and all of the systems that have been designed, you know, just just thinking of like physical activity. If you think of the built environment, I mean, in our country, we really designed roads and systems for the profitability of the automobile industry. And and so we don't have we have lots of towns and cities that aren't walkable and bikable, which is very different than a lot of European countries, for example. And so, um, that that's kind of through a public health lens is looking at those systems that are really impacting our individual choices. >> I want to put forward a couple thesis that beg, uh, potential solutions and just have you respond to them. And I'm very comfortable with push back, recognizing that you're the expert here. And I do think that we need to bring expertise back in vogue. Um, one, this is really just about money. Chinese companies are run for control. US companies are run for profits. European companies sort of a hybrid between profits and what they think is potentially good for people. And there's there's downsides. We grow faster. We we grow shareholder value faster. There's real benefits to having a robust economy. But at the end of the day, isn't the primary if you were to look at people's health outcomes? Doesn't it mostly if you were to try and find something it's correlated to, doesn't it mostly come down to money? And because I'm wealthy, am I not going to live 10 years longer than someone who is in the lowest decile? Which begs the question, it's not romantic, it's not sexy, it's expensive, but would we move the needle a lot more than say maha or subsidies if we said $25 an hour minimum wage? If we just gave poor people who have the worst health outcomes the money such they didn't have to have two jobs, they didn't have to find the cheapest calories available, which is usually at a, you know, a Wendy's or a McDonald's. Doesn't at the end of the day, like everything else, this come down to money? >> Yeah. The main predictor of health in this country is wealth. So, you're absolutely spot on. Um there's evidence to show there's research to show that, you know, there's a 15-year life expectancy age gap for men and a 10-year life expectancy age gap for women between the highest and lowest income brackets. And you can look at more sometimes more than 15 if you look at some of the research that looks at zip codes in the same state. And you'll see an even bigger disparity in terms of life expectancy. And so yeah 100% when we're thinking of like how can we help the people who are struggling most I mean it not just life expectancy if you think of all of the lifestyle related chronic diseases they are disproportionately impacting the lowest income people in this country um you know diabetes rates are over twice as high um five times more likely to report poorer fair health than than higher income groups um and so you know if you're trying to design systems to help improve the health of all Americans you look at the people who are struggling most and it's low-income people in this country who don't have good access to, you know, fruits, vegetables, healthful foods, um who don't have access to parks for their children to run around and play, educational access, those things. Um and so getting those people just kind of like baseline access, right? Housing access for safe housing. Um so I don't know if exactly if a $25 minimum wage would do it. I'd have to see data on that, but it's definitely getting resources to people so that they can at least have a baseline um a baseline kind of they can have baseline health insurance, they can have baseline food access, they can have baseline safe housing um so that they can experience health as well. It strikes me though. I've read somewhere that we spend a trillion and a half dollars on obesity related illnesses or obesity related condition conditions. This is just I used to think we're an addiction economy or we're an attention economy. Now I'm convinced we're an addiction economy and one of those addictions is to is to food because there's so much money in it. But what do you think of the idea or like well first off thoughts on public policy to address it and a simple idea that probably doesn't probably doesn't work. What if we just massively increase the availability and penetration of GLP-1 drugs? >> I think first of all, let me address just like the food environment aspect in terms of policy. I think that in if we're looking at what like why we have this abundance of food, I mean we have way more calories available to us than than you know our ancestors did even like a generation ago, two generations ago. Um we have about 4,000 calories available for each person that that is alive today in the US. And that's, you know, that that's a lot of calories per person. We don't need that many calories. And and the reasons for that are these food corporations are, you know, they're trying to stand out in a in a system that where we already have too many calories available per person, right? And so they do that by innovating and coming up with, you know, um a different color product or a different, you know, whatever it is. Um and so, you know, you go into one of these supermarkets and there's just thousands of products. I mean, it's really unnecessary, right? we don't need that many food products on our shelves. Um but they're doing it because they're they're trying to maximize profits. Um and so you know some of the ways that you can counteract some of that is through regulation and which is funny enough like right now we're going through again we have an administration that's quite deregulatory in their approach which is interesting for people who want a a better food environment. Um but you know you would regulate marketing particularly to children and lowincome populations who are most impacted by some of this some of this stuff but just in general you would regulate marketing. Um and you know one of the reasons we also have it is because we have very few corporations that own the majority of the food supply and so they kind of get to and that was because you know kind of this deregulatory era where there were a lot of mergers and acquisitions and now you know you think that you're getting a product that's a different um brand and but it's a brand that's owned by the same company and you wouldn't even know it, right? So I think that some of the some of the ways we do this is kind of we we regulate marketing. we regulate, you know, the amount of food that or the the types of foods that are allowed to be um put on the shelves or um those types of things. And and then but it's it's also just like deeper you you have to change the entire food system because again we have a food environment that's about 70% ultrarocessed foods. have to incentivize it. Starting at agricultural policies, incentivizing smaller farmers, um incentivizing, you know, through we have the supplemental nutrition assistance program, which helps low-income people get access to um foods. And we have um some really cool programs with that that are called like double up bucks, which a lot of states have, which is basically like if you spend your money on fruits and vegetables, um you get twice as much. So you you basically like double the amount of money that you have. And so we have these cool incentive programs that kind of incentivize people to eat more like um you know nutrient-dense healthpromoting foods. Um so so those are some of the strategies to be able to expand access you know you have to address food deserts to expand access to kind of lowincome populations. Um, and then on the other side of it, when if you're just thinking of the obesity side and increasing GLP-1 drugs, I think that GLP-1 drugs, you know, I think they are um amazing in terms of what they have been able to do and what they the potential that they can have in terms of improving people's health. Um, I don't I am somebody who likes to think of more like root cause and fix the underlying systems before thinking of treating with a pharmaceutical med. I think there's definitely a place for pharmaceutical meds, but um I would like to spend more of my time focused on like how can we fix the systems that are putting people in these positions um versus just treating on the back end. >> You said the Make America Healthy Again movement uh gets the problems right but the solutions wrong. What do you mean by that? >> Yeah. So when I talk about the Make America Healthy Again movement, I mean we sound like I sound very similar to them when I when I'll speak about kind of the problem. you know they get they do get those problems largely correct right we do have a lifestyle related chronic disease issue in this country we do have a food environment that's built for profitability and not people's health um and you know we have we have systems in this country that are not designed for us to succeed um where they get the where where we kind of diverge is in the causes of those problems so their causes largely kind of play into this rhetoric of it's a very conspiratorial anti-science anti re-regulatory agency rhetoric, which is you can't trust, you know, our regulatory agencies, you can't trust scientists because apparent like apparently scientists are the ones who have gotten us here. And they kind of like distract from all of the issues that I'm talking about right now. they distract from um you know the the the idea that all of the reason that we're here is kind of the logical conclusion of the system that we've built which is are these systems that have been designed again for profitability at the expense of people's health. Um and I think there when when you do that when you kind of just focus on like the problem is toxins in our food supply and you just choose random ones that don't have like it's not as if we have strong evidence behind some of these that they're choosing. Um, you know, you get solutions like swapping the color of Froot Loops, right? And or or um swapping high fructose corn syrup for cane sugar and Coca-Cola. And those just aren't going to move the needle on health. And they're very distracting from the policies that actually could be moving the needle on health, right? If you swap red dye 40 out of Skittles and you add in carmine or beet juice instead, like a natural food color additive, and it's still Skittles, right? It's still a very low nutrient, high sugar, ultrarocessed food that we should probably be consuming less of. Not not necessarily none of, but less of. Um, same with Coca-Cola. Same with swapping beef tallow out and putting in, you know, um, seed oils in fast food fries. Like, none of these things are going to actually change our food environment and actually make a meaningful difference on public health. And so, it's very much a distraction. And what I'll say is that if you get the problems wrong, you're going to get the solutions wrong. And so some of those solutions I just highlighted, which is what Maha is really talking about, some of the other solutions that you'll do is say things like, you know, fluoride in the water is the problem and that's causing all of our chronic disease issues. And so we're going to remove fluoride. Well, at the same time, dental cavities or dental carries are the the number one chronic disease in children. So if you're trying to improve chronic disease in children and you remove fluoride, which is directly going to increase the number of dental carries, that is a solution that is going to actually cause more harm than good in terms of what our evidence actually shows. And so that's the danger in kind of misdiagnosing the problem or or and then your solutions that follow are going to be problematic. >> We'll be right back after a quick break. >> Support for the show comes from Betterment. We all have goals in life. Maybe you want to start a business. Maybe you want to start a family. Or maybe you want to throw a couple of pairs of socks in a frame pack and travel around the world. Whatever your hopes and dreams are, Betterman can help you save and invest to get there. Better helps people and small businesses put their money to work. They automate to make savings simpler, optimize to make investing smarter, and build innovative technology backed by financial experts. Whether you're saving for retirement, a down payment on a house, or your kids' education, Betterment's goals-based outlook helps you ground your financial decisions in your actual life, their globally diversified portfolios help give you a solid financial foundation in turbulent times. And their tax smart features can help you save money. So, if you want to stop worrying about how you're going to get there and start thinking about where you want to go, Better might be a good option. Don't just imagine a better future, start investing in one with Betterment. Be invested in yourself. Be invested in your business. Be invested with Betterment. Go to betterment.com to learn more. Investing involves risk. Performance not guaranteed. [Music] Support for the show comes from LinkedIn. We say this all the time on our show, but it bears repeating. Running a small business isn't just a full-time job. It's about a dozen full-time jobs that you rarely, if ever, get to clock out of. At least until you get to the point where you can start hiring the dream team. And if you've made it that far, you already know there's no time to mess around. That's where LinkedIn Jobs comes in. LinkedIn makes it easy to post your job for free, share with your network, and get qualified candidates that you can manage all in one place. And LinkedIn's new AI feature can even help you write job descriptions and then quickly get it in front of the right people with deep candidate insights. And if you decide you want to go the extra mile to find the perfect candidate, LinkedIn says that promoted jobs get three times the number of qualified applicants. It's all these little things that let you find help fast without compromising on quality, which add up to you finally having extra time in the day for, I don't know, relaxing. Or knowing my listeners, you probably use that extra time to expand your empire even further. Post your job for free at linkedin.com/prof. That's linkedin.com/prof to post your job for free. Terms and conditions apply. [Music] 40% of American households have some form of medical or dental debt and I can't imagine the amount of stress that puts on households that and shame quite frankly. I, you know, me and my partner are working really hard and we can't afford to get our 19-year-old the root canal she needs and we have to take on debt and that amount of stress which I imagine leads to worse health outcomes and then you have a kind of a downward spiral. Do you believe that we should nationalize medicine? >> Yeah, I mean um medical debt is also the number one reason for personal bankruptcy in the United States. Um yeah, I'm a big advocate for un for some kind of universal health care system, some kind of system that gets everybody basic access to healthcare and then we can have private insurance on top of that if we it, you know, like companies can offer private insurance on top of that, but everybody should have basic access to healthare, which is what every other industrialized country in the world does. Um, and let me explain the reason for that, Scott. It's not just because I'm, you know, I'm altruistic and and just want everybody to have free things. Um if you give people access to health care, they're going to go to preventive visits and when that happens, they're going to be able to catch things early on. And so access to healthcare is one of our main determinants of health. There's an incredible amount of data on this. You give people access to health care, they get healthier. Not everybody, but on a mass scale when you look at kind of the population as a whole because they're going to go to preventive visits, they're going to go to screenings, and they're going to catch things before they get to too down the line. When people don't have health care, what happens is or or they have health care that doesn't cover, you know, these types of visits, um, or they have really high deductibles and and so they maybe they have healthcare, but they they would have to pay out of pocket anyway for some of these visits. They're not going to go to the doctor. And but the problem is is that they're still going to get sick. It's not as if they're just not going to get sick because they don't have healthcare. And when they get sick, they're still going to go to the hospital. They're going to end up in the emergency room. And what we have is a lot of Americans using the emergency room as their primary care physician. And so they're go ending up at the emergency room. And if you're in front of an emergency room having a heart attack, that hospital is going to accept you and they're going to give you care. And when you can't pay those medical bills, that that cost is going to come on to us as taxpayers. So it's not like that cost just goes away. So and and it comes on to us with increased premiums in our health insurance, with increased hospital costs, with increased um uncompensated care. So our tax dollars go to something called uncompensated care which goes directly to these hospitals to compensate them for this uncompensated care. Um and so you know not only is it problematic from a you know money money standpoint but it's also problematic from a health standpoint. So, if we can get more people access to health care, we're going to improve the health of those Americans and also um decrease costs because there's some good evidence to show that, you know, I mean, in this country, we pay twice as much for healthare and we have worse health outcomes. You know, we we've created a health care system that's very profitable for health care corporations um at the expense of again people's health and people getting access to healthcare. And so, you're going to improve people's health and you're going to lower costs. So that's obviously a big solution, universal healthcare that may, you know, if if everyone else has done it, I'd like to think we could do it, but most people will say it's it's it would be very difficult to accomplish. Are there two or three policy solutions or private sector solutions that you think would move the needle? >> Yeah, I I think um if you think of the main determinants of health, um they are healthcare access, food access, income inequality, right? and probably income inequality is even above the the other two. Um and so you know when you think of policies that could actually help improve um health, you have to look at well what are the main determinants of health and then what are policies that could impact those? And so if you're thinking of income inequality it's it's some kind of solution that decreases income inequality, right? Which is the exact opposite that we're seeing right now obviously with the big beautiful bill. you know, the big beautiful bill. I'm going to like tangentially talk about this because it kind of counteracts everything I just said. If if you think about income inequality and decreasing income inequality, it's exacerbating income inequality. If you think about expanding healthcare access, it's cutting nearly a trillion dollars from healthcare access from from Medicaid specifically, um which, you know, the the Congressional Budget Office estimates 10 million people are going to lose access to healthare. Now, they will argue that that's that those people that are losing access to health care are, you know, able-bodied people who should be working. There's just no evidence that 10 million people are able-bodied people who should be working. The vast majority of people on Medicaid who can work and don't have an exemption are working. Um, and you know, we again, I just kind of explained why we want to get more people access to healthcare regardless. Um, and um, the last one is food accessibility. And so, you know, getting people more access to food food is is a big social determinant of health and this cuts um hundreds of billions of dollars from from SNAP or the supplemental nutrition assistance program. So, um that that's really problematic right now. What we're seeing is kind of like the it's antithetical to what we would want to see in public health. What I will say in terms of like policy based solutions, it starts with overturning some citizens united and um getting money out of politics because that and and a lot of people don't kind of like put that together with with the policies um that are impacting our health. that the reason that we can't pass a lot of policy that are healthpromoting policies is because um of of kind of the corporate capture of some of these politicians and and you know there's not a lot of money on the front end in public health um and so in order to get something like universal healthcare passed or expanding access to some of these programs um the infrastructure bill that you know Biden passed was was really a great thing because it was looking at kind of the built environment and improving some of those systems s um but it would be a lot easier if we could um decrease the amount of corporate lobbying that was allowed at our political level. >> What role do you think that uh social media has played specifically around the maja movement? Why do you think it's resonating so much? I I keep getting served I'm very into health, but I keep getting served a real or a Tik Tok that's something along the lines of look at this horrible thing that's in your food. You can also, it's also used in antifree. You know, they scare the out of you. And then it always ends with, "Oh, and by the way, the way you solve this problem and have better looking skin and longer erections is if you buy my supplement and they're really elegant. They're well produced. It's from uh someone who is articulate and attractive." And you kind of, you know, you can see how these are big businesses. And on the one hand, I love entrepreneurship. I love people having access to consumers to come up with ideas. On the whole, I think it's mostly a negative. And I'm I'm curious. You you you put out a lot of interesting I love it when you do these stitches where you listen to someone rant about something and then you come in and go, "Well, actually, no, there's no scientific proof what's whatsoever." Why do you think the Maha movement is resonating? What role do you think online platforms play? >> Yeah, I think the Maha movement took the wellness influencer playbook that's that they've been using for, you know, at least the last 10 years. Um, a lot of my colleagues in the science communication space have been um, you know, combating some of this misinformation that's been on social media for for years now. Um, and you know, the Maha movement, I think, saw the success of some of these influencers, particularly some of the ones that are high up in this Maha movement. Um, and and really like honed in on those. Um, I think that social media algorithms play, you know, they really play into conspiratorial fear-based information. That's what sells and that's what that's what spreads fast. So, you know, I I've done some videos where I stitch people who are like, "Are you poisoning your kids?" And then they go into kind of like a single ingredient in a food item that's also found in like a cleaning agent in home at Home Depot or something. And that's supposed to be very scary. And I think they they're relying on people's lack of kind of like chemistry knowledge, right? And and scientific knowledge because we have, you know, I mean, just think of baking soda, right? Baking soda is an ingredient that can be in chocolate chip cookies or it can be used in in some sort of cleaning agent, right? Baking soda is really great or it can be sitting in your refrigerator in order to air it out, right? In order to in order to um make it make it cleaner. So, it's got lots of different functions and a lot of um ingredients are like that. And so, you know, if you if you rely on people to not really understand that, you can kind of manipulate their lack of understanding um in order to then on the back end, as you mentioned, most of the time sell you some sort of product, right? So, I'm going to scare you um and then I'm going to sell you a product. And and I think it it just unfortunately the way that social media algorithms are is that's what plays really well on social media. I mean, even myself, I if I went online and I just started educating, you know, I think that some people would watch it, but what I found is that it works a lot better when I show the the video and then I like reply to the video. Um, and you know, that's me kind of playing in social media algorithms because it it that that's what works when somebody sees the misinformation and then I correct the misinformation. And so, unfortunately, I social media I think social media takes most of the blame to be honest. And and then what happens is you get into an algorithm. You you watch one or two of those videos and you get into an algorithm and then you that's all you see and you don't have a chance. I can't tell you how many people when I you know started making content really like target really like combating some of the narratives coming out of this Maha movement cuz I just saw how manipulative some of the narratives were. Um how many people reached out to me in my DMs and said, you know, I I've just never had the opportunity to hear another side to this. like this is literally I' I've just seen kind of like what they're saying about all these like toxins and all this and I've never heard like a scientist or anyone else talk about that and you know social media is great at that. It's great at dividing us and kind of putting us in our camps and then you never really see the other side. Um so I think it takes a ton of blame. >> What are your thoughts on how co changed the landscape? I think co completely changed the landscape and so um you know what's interesting about my field is wellness was really always kind of like a left-leaning idea you know like hippies in San Francisco and kind of like started there and then you know people who really cared about the food supply and um you know small farmers and that sort of thing and we've seen over the last 5 years like this shift in in kind of like wellness discourse um that has really kind of moved from left to Right. And so again, like wellness is a bipartisan thing. Most of us want wellness. But I think um the underlying shift that's happened is this distrust in regulatory agencies and distrust in science. And I think most of that I think maybe there was a little of that before, but most of that in terms of like our everyday discourse, it really came from CO. Um and I think it was kind of a confluence of um COVID was you know a novel virus that uh you know we were dealing with a global pandemic and so science was changing because that's what it does as new information was coming in um and I think there's a bit of a lack of you know we we don't a lot of us want certainty um and and co did not give us certainty particularly in the early days and so I think as things shifted um it really just opened the door for a lot of kind manipulative or conspiratorial narratives to kind of enter the fray. Um, and then at that same time, you know, social media was even getting bigger. Tik Tok was released like right before that and it was huge at that time and I think, you know, those types of algorithms just started getting people into camps. I don't know that we would have seen the same kind of distrust and the same kind of like response that we saw during CO if we didn't have social media, right? because we we've had, you know, not to the same extent, but we've had kind of like these public health crises before and we haven't necessarily seen the same thing. Um, and and you know, I think a little bit of some of that definitely um like we as scientists, public health experts, communicators um need to take some blame because I think there were mistakes made in terms of like communication at that time um and and you know what was happening and really just communicating that like this is what we know now. it could change because of when we get more information. Um, you know, but because that may perhaps wasn't communicated as best as we could now looking back and seeing kind of like what we could have done. Um, I think that it just really left gaping holes open for people to step in and just create conspiratorial narratives around it all. Um, and that's why we've seen kind of this huge surge of people who just have complete distrust in our regulatory agencies. um which which you know MA really plays on really hard. >> It seems as if a vessel for some of this distrust or rejection of science is focused on vaccines right now. What's happening in terms of mRNA research cancellations and why do you think vaccines have become such a hot vet for controversy? >> Well, RFK Jr. is the head of HHS is certainly part of that, right? RFK, he's for the last, you know, at least two decades, um he's kind of been in this antivax space. um you know he started up the children's health defense which kind of this antivax group um and he that's that's his main coalition. It's really interesting this Maha movement they kind of have two sides two facets of the coalition. It's the the hardcore antivaxers who have been with RFK Jr. years. Um who who made up kind of his when he was running for president as an independent um kind of like made up his coalition and then they brought in kind of this more like the maha moms who are really worried about like the food additives and the the toxins in our food supply and those types of things and so they kind of like brought them together and there's kind of been some there's there there's been some infighting there which is interesting but I think on the antivax side co obviously is part of that and um RFK Jr. and and his antivax like colleagues are are certainly part of it. And now I mean he's the head of HHS. HHS is the biggest public health agency in the entire world. Um and he's he's leading that charge. Um and so I think that that's why it's so front and center in public discourse clearly. Um and what we're seeing right now, I mean it it we you know he canceled half a million half a billion dollars in mRNA vaccine research. mRNA is a technology um that you know the the inventors of mRNA just won a Nobel Prize for it in 2023. Um if you talk to experts in this field um about who who are experts in mRNA, they will say that they believe it's going to revolutionize medicine, they believe it's going to do for the 21st century what antibiotics did for the 20th century. Um you know it's it's a very elegant technology where um it it speeds things up. And so maybe some people don't understand, but the reason that we were able to get the co vaccines out so quickly was because they had spent, you know, a decade plus two decades um working on this mRNA technology. And so a ton of research had gone into it. And so when when they were um when they identified the SARS KV2, they were able to come out with a vaccine quite quickly for it, whereas, you know, it would have taken years prior to that. Um, and so, you know, it's and it's not just vaccines. It's it's it's not just, you know, infectious diseases. It's also that they think it's going to revolutionize cancer um and potentially be incredible for cancer um like cancer treatments um and uh other other like um unknown diseases or not well-known diseases. And so, I think that it's really problematic when when he just cancels half a billion dollars in the research. I mean, the research is the part that like let's let's make things safer. let's make like let's improve upon what we have. Let's see what else it can um impact and you know this is research being done globally and he canceled half a billion dollars here in the United States which you know is is there's an economic cost to that too. So we're basically giving up we're we're the leaders in this research right now and we're giving up kind of that leadership by cancelling this research into mRNA vaccine technology. Um and so you know and that's not all we're seeing with vaccines. We're seeing we're seeing the entire CDC essentially being dismantled. Um you know RFK Jr. just fired the head of the CDC. Um several leadership positions, these are career scientists, some who have been at the CDC for decades, um have resigned saying that, you know, RFK Junior is not even listening to them at the CDC. It's really um concerning that when you're when you have an HHS secretary who is literally just not listening to career scientists and instead is kind of listening to to his own um group of people. >> We'll be right back. [Music] >> Support for the show comes from Sakf Avenue. Sakf Avenue makes it easy to shop for your personal style. Fall is here and you can invest in some new arrivals that you'll want to wear again and again like a relaxed Prada blazer and Gucci loafers which can take you from work to the weekend. Shopping from Sax feels totally customized from the intore stylist to a visit to saxs.com where they can show you things that fit your style and taste. They'll even let you know when arrivals from your favorite designers are in or when that branella kinelli sweater you've been eyeing is back in stock. So, if you're like me and you need shopping to be personalized and easy, head to Sakswiftth Avenue for the best follow arrivals and style inspiration. Support for the show comes from Shopify. If you run a small business, you know there's nothing small about it. Every day there's a new decision to make. Even the smallest decisions feel massive. But if you have the right platform, you can approach all of your decisions with confidence. Shopify is the commerce platform behind millions of businesses around the world and 10% of all e-commerce in the US. From household names like Mattel and Gym Shark to brands just getting started, Shopify lets you tackle all your important tasks in one place. From the inventory to payments to analytics and more, it makes the marketing minefield easy with built-in tools for running social media and email campaigns so you can find new customers and keep them. And if you're looking to grow your business internationally, Shopify has global selling tools to help you in over 150 countries. Get all the big stuff for your small business right with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/propg. Go to shopify.com/propg. Shopify.com/propg. [Music] We're back with more from Dr. Jessica Nurick. Where do you think that lack of appreciation for science and what feels to me just like naked incompetence, where do you think that manifests first? Where where is that going to start to bubble up in terms of outcomes? >> Science is um it's it's an interesting thing because it's what has enabled us, you know, the scientific method. It's just basically science is a way of understanding the world around us, right? It's not it's not a set of facts that we that we say are like never going to change. It's it's a way of understanding the world around us. And the scientific method has enabled incredible advances in the last 150 years. Over doubling of global life expectancy in just the last 150 years. You know, um I just saw a clip from a few weeks ago of Neil deGrasse Tyson talking about this and he he put it beautifully. He said, you know, for thousands and thousands of years, life expectancy was 30 to 35 up until about 150 200 years ago when all of a sudden it went up to, you know, in the United States about 78 right now, right? And so, and that was because we have we have been able to create this really beautiful way to understand the world around us. It's not perfect. It has issues. Um, it's not foolproof and and things change that we and we learn more. Um but it's a way that we are able to identify viruses, identify germ, like germ theory has enabled us to identify germs. Um and so if we disregard the scientific method, we don't really have to look far to see what what would happen, right? Because we lived that for thousands of years when we had people who kind of, you know, treated through uh ideology, treated through treated people through like what they believed to be true without necessarily having evidence. Um and, you know, outcomes weren't great. again 30 to 35 was life expectancy that was certainly disproportionately like young people were were dying of infectious diseases or lack of sanitation and those types of things. Um and so when we disregard science um what we're going to see are are people dying because of it like to to put it bluntly um we're going to see you know if we have another pandemic if we have we're going to see a resurgence of some of these infectious diseases that haven't been around. I mean, we see it with measles right now and the measles outbreak. Um, and you know, as vaccination status decreases, we'll see these these diseases that used to take a lot of lives and don't anymore resurge. Um, and you know that that's kind of the fear is that if we if we stop investing in science, we will see consequences of not investing in science. And that will be that we'll see, you know, diseases that we could have had progress on, um, we won't have progress on, right? And so, so those are all really like strong concerns for us in the scientific community. And then there's an economic aspect to it as well because, you know, we in the United States, we've always in a bipartisan way really supported scientific research. Um, you know, and and NIH research and and that's kind of been a bipartisan thing. Right now, we're looking at Trump's 2026 budget. He wants to cut NIH funding by 40%. Um and and you know if you do that you are essentially like giving up what your your standing in terms of um you know scientific innovation in our country. Um and that that that that obviously has problematic impacts for for the economy. >> What trends or technologies are you keeping an eye on right now? Is there anything that you think we're missing to the downside or the upside >> in terms of just public health? >> What what are you watching right now? What do you think has been under reportported in terms of the impact it might have? Also, to the upside, is there anything you're really excited about? >> I think what's being under reportported and under um maybe like people aren't realizing how detrimental it might be are these um attacks to science and and what it's doing to young scientists. So, PhD students, young career scientists, people in the medical field, um you know, medical doctors. Um, we're seeing, you know, I talk to every single day like youngstage career scientists who are looking to leave the country. Um, we're we're seeing PhD um programs that uh are not being funded and so there are no spots for PhD students and so they're having to look outside of the country. Um, we're seeing like some of our best researchers um in in some of our fields leave leave the country. I know I mean very excellent uh nutrition researchers that I know are are moving to Canada um and just accepted positions in Canada. And so and we see some of these countries that are creating pathways for scientists. They're kind of capitalizing on this on this um brain drain that we're experiencing right now and opening pathways to to allow them to move um to their countries. We see France doing it. We see Canada doing it. I think there's a couple of other countries that are doing it as well. Um and so that is very concerning to me in terms of we may lose in ter because of funding um because of just like the overall feeling um of of how people are you know the first of there's a loss of funding. Second of all, there's this idea that um you know, a lot of our medical doctors, people are coming in and just com, you know, yelling at them or or not listening to to what their advice is or saying that they're paid off by big pharma and these types of things when, you know, they get into this field to really try to help people. Um, and I know of a lot of u medical doctors who are thinking about leaving the profession. And so I'm concerned about kind of the downstream effects of that in let's say 10 years when we have far fewer scientists and medical professionals in the field. Um that that's kind of one of the things that I think is being under reportported and I'm talking to people every single day who are who are talking about this who are in these fields who are who are thinking of leaving either leaving science altogether or trying to leave the country to go someplace else to do their work. As a parent, what advice would you give to other parents in terms of where we get it wrong in terms of our own kids nutrition? >> I think right now what one of the things that I dislike so much about the social media aspect of all of this and and how these algorithms really like play into this conspiratorial fear-based nature is I'm seeing a huge exacerbation of like um just food anxiety, right? and like fear about like what can my kids eat, what can I eat and and you know young parents are are especially vulnerable targets and so I feel like especially protective over them um because we just want to do what's best for our our young kids, right? We just ourselves but also our young kids. Um, and so when we're when I'm when I'm talking to them, if I were to give a piece of advice, it would be that the basics of what it are like from a health perspective, the basics that may go into somebody's health are, you know, they they've been longstanding for decades and and they haven't changed a whole lot. So, you know, try to emphasize like whole foods as much as possible. Um, try to get movement every single day. Um, try to have a good sleep schedule. those types of things and that those try to play with your kids. Um, and those things are going to do a lot more than kind of looking at individual ingredients on a label or being scared to eat anything. Um, and so that's that's what I want to really drive home in terms of messaging is just, you know, and and and that kind of goes to everyone in the country like not just not just children, you know, 90% of Americans don't meet fiber intake guidelines. Over 90% of Americans don't meet vegetable intake guidelines. 80% of Americans don't meet physical activity guidelines. If we can just focus on the basics, try to get more fiber richch foods, try to eat get a vegetable on your plate at most meals, try to move your body, the average American walks 3 to 4,000 steps per day, try to get moving a bit more um that's going to have a way more measurable impact on your health um than any of the things that we're spending 90% of our time on social media thinking about. >> Uh we've seen those studies where in China the number one aspirational job for kids is astronaut. In the US, it's influencer. Um, I think of you as an influencer, and I mean that in a positive way. And I think a lot of people see your social media footprint, as I did, and think that's the right type of influencer. She's bringing substance, an important topic, expertise, measured, thoughtful, and you're you're very compelling the way you articulate these things. How did you get here? I just want to know what is your backstory? What led to where you are right now? Yeah, I um so I have a PhD in nutrition science and I'm a registered dietician and um I I got into this field really it was I mean it was a long process but um my goal was really to look at chronic disease prevention. My grandpa died when he was in his 60s. He had type two diabetes and um he he died of a heart attack while snowblowing in Michigan. And so that always had me thinking like how how could we have helped him better because the what we heard from you know and I was a child I was a kid at this time so a teenager um but what we knew to be the case was that he just shouldn't eat sugar and so what we would do is we would just find like sugar-free alternatives for him and we would get so excited we would find sugar-free brownies or sugar-free candy and and we would bring it to him and think that we were helping um and not realizing that that wasn't helpful at all. Um, but you know, we thought that what we were doing was the right thing. And so that just got had me always interested in the kind of this idea of chronic disease prevention. And so when I went for my PhD program, I went into a program that was really interdisciplinary. So, um, I mean, the title of it is physical activity, nutrition, and wellness. And I really focused on the nutrition science side of that, but it was cool because we were able to kind of all work together and look at all of these factors that impacted health um, and and how to decrease health. And so, um, when I was looking at it, I was really focused on the individual. Um, but when you get into the research, you think you kind of see, oh, we have really good data on what can prevent chronic disease, at least lifestyle related chronic disease. Um, but what we're missing is like behavior change, the behavior change data, it's very difficult to change people's behavior. Um, and so when you kind of start looking at that data, it's it's impossible to not look at the systems that are impacting people's behavior. And so that's where my research led me was just kind of looking at these public health systems that um are really influencing us. And so um I was a professor at the University of Nevada um for a couple of years and then um my husband was in San Francisco at the time and I was in Vegas and we lived separately and the only way for us to really get together, it was a personal choice. I left academia to join him in San Francisco. Um and you know when I was a professor though I I've told this story. I tried to go on social media. So, this was 2016. Um, and there was a new app out and um, my brother, my little brother, uh, convinced me to go on and just start teaching nutrition. He was like, "You're teaching in class. Just go teach what you teach on on this app." And so I did. And, um, you know, I talk about this a lot. It was very frowned upon at that time for academics to go on social media. Like, that just was not what you did. And you probably can speak to this as well. It was, you know, and I was a brand new tenure track professor. And so I did not want to, you know, I didn't want to negatively impact my career trajectory. And I would get I got comments from um some of the professors in my department and and some previous colleagues basically making fun of me and asking like what are you doing on social media and saying like how's your blog doing? >> I so relate to this. In in a department meeting, I had a colleague say in front of all of my colleagues that Scott is the Kim Kardashian of academia and he wasn't being kind. it outed you as someone who wasn't serious. Um, right. Which wasn't the case. Anyways, I'm sorry I didn't mean to interrupt you. >> No, I mean that's that was exactly my experience. And so I I got off after a few months. I was like, well, I'm not going to do this. I'm a brand new professor. I want to like I want a career in academia. Um, but I say that story to say that like I think we lost a lot of ground for years and years, particularly in the sciences. It was frowned it was frowned upon for us to go to spaces where people were going for information. And so we started allowing kind of this these narratives to be um to be owned by people who didn't necessarily have the background to be talking about these topics. And so um I think that that was that did us a big disservice. I think that's changing now. It's not 100% changed um but it's changing now to be more accepted. And so anyway, I went into um the startup world and that's where I started working in science communication um and working kind of between PhD researchers and and business people. And so I would be act as kind of a translator. And so I I honed some communication skills doing that I think. And um so when I got I came on social media in 2022 originally. I was pregnant with my daughter um and started uh you know I just saw a lot of misinformation um targeting pregnant people and um I was protective of them because I was one. And so I started kind of combating some of that misinformation. And then it was last summer that I started when when the Maha movement kind of started um you know coming coming of age um I started to see and I think it was just because it was my exact area of expertise I was able to see where I whereas maybe I'm not in other areas of politics um exactly like how manipulative the narrative really was. Um, and so I shifted my uh content focus to talk really about my my area of expertise, which was which was nutrition science and public health. And um, and yeah, my account has grown from there and it's been quite the ride. And just any if you were to sort of communicate if there was one thing as we go into you know well the 26th election is way off but if if there's anything you would want to remind people or if you wanted to distill your message down to one basic message you really hope that resonates with people or that they really contemplate on what would that one message be? I think it would be that um health is bipartisan, right? And wanting a healthier food environment, wanting healthier systems is really bipartisan. And so we have to understand that problem and how we got here in order to understand the solution. And so I understand kind of the the desire to kind of just latch on to some of these like very simple easy kind of conspiratorial narratives in terms of the toxins in our food environment or this or that or you know our regulatory agencies but but you have to understand why we got here and then like let's solve the root cause of of why we got here. And so I think um I think this is really an opportunity for um you know I think more people one of the great things about the Maha movement is it's gotten people who have never really thought about these systems and really never thought about public health before to be very interested in it. And I think that's a real opportunity for us as professionals to be able to maybe for the first time meet people where they are and explain these things and and talk to them about how we could improve upon our systems to to make a an environment that puts the most people in success in in a position of success in terms of their health. Um and and so that's that's what I guess looking forward what I'm hopeful about is that you know I do think that there's a real opportunity here for us to um change some things in terms of improving the systems in our country that on both sides of the aisle many of us want to see um and and and changing those for the better for for all of Americans. >> It feels as if in our government we overindex or at least our elected officials we overindex on lawyers and business people and under index on health professionals. Dr. Nerk, would you ever consider running for office? >> You know, people ask me that all the time, Scott. I I've I have two young kids in their five and two, and so I'm not considering running for office anytime soon. Um, I think that I am in a position right now where I am able to maybe potentially do a more help or be be more helpful in terms of just a communication role um than I would be kind of in a in an government office role. >> Well, health is bipartisan is a fantastic bumper sticker. Dr. Jessica Nurk is a nutrition scientist, registered dietician, and nationally recognized science communicator whose work spans nutrition, public health, and food policy. She's best known for breaking down health misinformation and making science clear and accessible. She joins us from her home in Denver. Dr. Noric in a world where expertise has been eroded or that science is science denial seems to be hip and cool there needs to be a resistance of thoughtful people that continues to bring science datadriven solutions to a society. I think you are a gift. You combine substance uh you are incredibly compelling. You have weaponized these mediums for good. And I'm just so I I we're sincere about this. We want to be a weapon and a platform for spreading your accurate information. You're you really are, I think, a a huge force of of of positive information that's really needed right now. Very much appreciate your work and appreciate your time today. >> Really appreciate that. Thank you for having me, Scott. [Music]