Well, in terms of First Amendment law, anonymous speech is protected, but um but I don't think that's sufficient enough of an answer. Um, and I think I tend to think of the justification for anonymity as like a seessaw. That especially if we lived in a free and enlightened society in which people welcomed dissent and welcomed disagreement and there was no imaginable idea that you'd be punished for it. Um, then the justification for anonymity would kind of fall on ring hollow to people. They'd be like, who cares? But we don't live in that world and we live less in that world than we used to. >> Greg, where does this podcast find you? >> Uh Maine, actually. This is my my my first day up here since last year. >> First day up there. Where are you usually? >> DC. >> Oh, nice. Um so let's bust right into it. Give us your thoughts on council culture. How did it start? brief history of it and how does it differ from accountability, so to speak? >> Sure. I mean, uh, I wrote a book called Cancelling of the American Mind, um, with a when I started the project, uh, 20-year-old, um, Ricky Schlott, who's absolutely brilliant and I feel very lucky to work with her. And it definitely was one of those things that was a really striking discontinuity from the rest of my career. Um, I started working defending free speech on campus in 2001. Uh, and back then you were most likely to get in trouble on campus from administrators. Uh, professors were fairly good on freedom of speech. Students were great on freedom of speech and and freedom to differ, differing opinions. But right around 2013 going into 2014, a cohort of students showed up that were much less, you know, just to be blunt, tolerant of difference that essentially you started seeing a lot more demands that speakers be cancelled. You started seeing demands for new speech codes. And this was a big shift from what I'd seen before. Um, and but I also started seeing some of this happening off-campus. So I try to define cancel culture as a historical period um because um all moments in the history of censorship have commonalities but they also have uh things that make them distinct. And I think one of the distinct characteristics of cancel culture is that it was essentially impossible to have it as we understood it uh without something like social media. something that allows you to create um the uh reality or oftentimes appearance of a sudden mob that's demanding you fire that one employee. And this wasn't a subtle shift. You know, I'd been doing it doing this job for a long time prior to 2014. And from 2014 on, you know, I've seen more professors uh lose their jobs, more tenured professors lose their job than, you know, what I'd seen in my previous half of my career, you know, times 20. you know, it it was it was really quite a shift. So, the way that Ricky and I define cancel culture is the uptick of campaigns to get people uh fired, punished, penalized, uh expelled, or otherwise punished um for speech that would be protected under the First Amendment. They're making an analogy to public employee law, which basically means there that that there's some common sense injected in there, but that essentially um you're not supposed to fire people just for their outside speech as a citizen. And the culture of fear that resulted from it. And one thing you should notice about that definition is there's no political veilance to it. So cancel culture is cancel culture whether it comes from the left or the right. Isn't that one of the deltas though that there's always been shaming or criticism of people if they, you know, if their narrative doesn't match yours or an opportunity to play kind of play into gotcha culture. But what I see is the big difference over the last 10, 15 years is the discovery that you could go after people's livelihood. It used to be that that was somewhat isolated. Like we're I don't like what Greg says. I'm going to publicly shame him. I'm angry at him. He's a bad person. you shouldn't be his friend, you shouldn't be listening to him, but it never jumped the shark to now go after his livelihood. Wasn't that the big difference here? >> Well, that was part of the definition. Um, our campaigns to get people punished in some real material way, like get them fired, expelled, etc. It's not cancel culture if you're just telling it. There was there was a phenomenon called trashing >> in the 1960s that Musa Algarvey likes to point to. Um, and it's this really nasty vitriolic way of going after political enemies that was exact everything you're talking about. It's like the person's a bad person. Don't listen to the person anymore. They're they're not, you know, um, they're not doctrine as as I would like to be doctrinire. But it generally didn't get to the point of and this professor has to be fired. And the biggest shift, the one that kind of shocked me was the uptick in around 2017 because at first students were focusing on each other um and outside speakers, but 2017 really marks the moment when they started going after professors in large number. >> Talk a little bit about quote unquote deplatforming. deplatforming is just the idea um and uh that essentially the the way we define deplatforming in our research department at at fire um is essentially um getting getting a speaker um either getting them disinvited or making it so difficult to hear them or otherwise chasing them off campus. the the the ones that scare me, the kind of deplatform that actually scares me the most are the ones that involve violence or the threat of violence for obvious reasons. It's primarily targeted at speakers. We also consider it deplatforming if you do the same thing to like say playing a movie. Um that essentially you're showing a documentary that's not very popular on campus, students show up and shout it down. But um this is actually one of the areas where a lot of it actually comes from the right as well because uh for a lot of speakers on campus uh there'll be off-campus pressure to get that person um to get that person disinvited and this is particularly true of say speakers that could be painted as like a pro-choice um and sometimes Catholic groups um I think the Carl Cardinal Newman Center is big on this uh pressure um schools to disinvite that person. So generally as and this is for fairly obvious reasons. If the threat to free speech and that deplatforming comes from the left, it tends to come on camp come from on campus. If it comes from the right, it tends to come from off-campus. >> I saw some of this as a faculty member at NYU. I I remember about 1015 years ago, it became sort of invogue for department chairs to put out very long emails about how certain microaggressions would not be tolerated. And it was, okay, we're we're charging kids $280,000 to come here. Some of them leave riddled in student debt. Twothirds of the faculty probably isn't holding the weight. So, there was an opportunity to step into this virtue circle. And no one could ever criticize them. I do anything but applaud otherwise you were a racist. And there was this almost this sort of self-appointed police. >> Yeah. that um and it was always quite frankly uh and I consider myself a proud progressive but people never got cancelled for being um too progressive and it felt very unhealthy and then uh we'll comment on that and then I'm going to play identity politics and and just make some anecdotal observations in the classroom and see if there's any actual data that supports my thesis. to talk about how all of a sudden do you think some of it is I just saw as people who weren't adding any actual value and were trying to find some merit uh and grab virtue or some sort of relevance and saw this as an easy way to try and to try and grab status so to speak. >> Yeah. I I think it's a lot of things going going on at once. I I I think a lot of younger people um were taught I one thing from my work with Jonathan height >> one chapter we ended up leaving out because I just didn't have enough research to back it up um was my intuition that uh a lot of the phenomena we were seeing seemed to be playing out some of the values of the circa 2010 anti-bullying movement. Um so in coddling we talk about there being three great untruths um which are basically terrible advice to give someone that's inconsistent with either u modern um psychology or ancient wisdom and that will make you more miserable if you believe them. And so we give this negative advice as what doesn't kill you makes you weaker. You know kind of like the opposite of nichi. Um the um uh the the second one is always trust your feelings which sounds nice but is just awful advice. And three, life is a battle between good people and evil people, which is contrary to more sophisticated understanding of that everybody has some aspect of of good and evil within them, which is more how I was raised. There was a a critic who pointed out um after uh coddling came out in 2018 that uh these were more or less kind of like the way anti-bullying was being taught after sort of like a a moral panic about it. Not that bullying isn't real and should be addressed, but things manifest in their own ways. And this was primarily due to parents being aware of more of this stuff due to the fact that they could see it on their cell phones, they could see it on their uh on their screens. And this did have a an emphasis of, you know, human fragility. Um if you feel that you've been wronged, you've been wronged. Um and that there's basically only two types of people. Uh good people and evil people. uh that you know good people victims and bullies and I think that this wasn't the only cause by any any stretch of the imagination but to explain why I think young people had such sympathy for this movement I think they were framing it partially in that way but unfortunately because the rule of human behavior is that all motives are mixed it also met with something that my very young um uh colleague and co-author on cancelling the American mind was able to point out that she was part of the first generation of people to grow up with cell phones in her pocket. She had them since she was 10 uh in junior high school. You know, it took on very much the nature of what you would expect um a a mass communication device uh given to kids in junior high school. It became a way of showing aggression against your perceived enemies, but doing it within the rules of the time, which you don't call out someone for being unpopular or ugly. you call them out for being something more that makes you allows you to feel more moral. So I think these two mixed motives kind of came together for the students when it comes to the utterly crucial role though of the administrators because this wouldn't if if administrators looked at this and went no way no no you're not you're not getting a professor fired because you don't like what they said. This would have died in the crib. Um but they had met those same administrators we've been fighting for fighting against uh at at fire forever and together it created this kind of calamity um for uh for freedom of speech where these people who already believed it was their job to uh say what shall be orthodox on this particular campus met a cohort of students that were more willing to play along with that too. And again as as with all things with mixed motives. He said something that I thought was so I don't know puncturing. He said that students are being taught the mental habits of anxious and depressed people which really struck me. I thought we're we're teaching the kids to be fragile and and and actually make them less resilient. It's more than just word. These I have seen this evolution where kids in my class they feel weaker. It's not just it's not just a a cool virtue thing and trendy or fashionable. They appear to me to be less resilient. Talk talk about that. >> Yeah. I mean the whole project uh with me me and John um came uh out of my observation when I was dealing with my own anxiety and depression. Um and cognitive behavioral therapy is what saved me and utterly transformed my life which is a process by which you develop all these tools and sort of talking back to the exaggerated voices in your head um that tell you things like you're doomed or you're a failure, nobody loves you. all all of these kind of voices that to a degree to be clear everybody except sociopaths have um but you know when you're anxious and depressed uh they're louder and they're harder to ignore. Uh the amazing thing about CBT is it teaches you that if you actually rationally, not not power of positive thinking stuff, but just rationally interrogate these, you realize you're overgeneralizing or engaging in uh fortuneelling that you know what the future's going to look like or mind readading. All these things that logically don't really stand up to scrutiny. And the observation um that I uh that really brought me to talk to John about a potential collaboration, although actually I just told him the idea that I thought was cool. I didn't actually think we'd collaborate on it. That was a that was a dream come true. um was just that it was like we were teaching kids reverse CBT that we were teaching them do overgeneralize, do catastrophize, do engage in binary thinking, do uh uh uh do believe you know the future and and and and it comes from I believe two different places. want a very well-meaning um idea from both parents and administrators all through all through K through PhD to sort of and an instinct to sort of protect young people and to um to insulate them from harm. But then a less admirable quality is that essentially if you make people feel guilty or frightened, it uh in theory will motivate them towards political action that you prefer. And to me, that's the that that's the one that makes me pretty angry. The first one makes me kind of sad because it's like, yeah, no, it's an understandable instinct, but it's still terrible advice and you should have known that. The second one is the idea that we can sort of guilt, shame, anger, upset um through uh telling people that they are more fragile than they are, that they are in greater danger than they are, that that will somehow result in a better world. And I always make the point, listen, this is a bad calculation even just rationally because people who are filled with despair and anxiety don't always choose to say the least the the best course of action to get from point A to point B. >> Yeah. I want to make some observations anecdotal and you tell me if there's any data to back it up that in terms of I think I'm trying to think of that product. Was it called Jot Form where all of a sudden someone would get upset by something and spin up an online petition and within a certain amount of time everybody thought it was cool to join in and the dean had to deal with this and and I do think a lot of it was but a couple observations and you tell me if if the nullify or validate them. Uh, I never got in the way or I was never subject to this sort of scrutiny or blowback because the first thing I say in class one, I'm known as being provocative and quite frankly a little bit aggressive and obnoxious. So, the expectation is there. >> Yeah. >> And the first thing I say is if you think there's a non-zero probability something I say is going to trigger you. I curse. I make sexist jokes. I I have certain unconscious biases I'm still working on. >> Yeah. But if you think something's really going to emotionally trigger you, you should call your parents and tell them to come get you cuz you're not ready for college. >> Yeah. >> So, there's a certain expectation that I'm going to be a little bit out there. And no one ever has I've never gotten run over by this. I have some colleagues who are much more thoughtful and considerate than me 99.9% of the time and then they then they make an error. They're they're inarticulate around something and it's shocking because they're known as these nice benign people and and then they get taken, you know, they get taken out and shot because it's almost like those of us who are a little bit more aggressive and provocative regularly are not subject to the same scrutiny as someone who makes one false move. And then the second observation I would make, and this is identity politics, but I'm going to do it anyways. The people I have observed in class who get really upset. I mean physically upset. They're not faking it. It tend to be women tend to be white women. >> Upper class white women. Yes. What's the data there? The data on women particularly um white women and particularly upper class white women being more free speech skeptical is just very apparent. Um, and that's one of those things that, you know, it makes me a little uncomfortable to say it, but it's a consistent finding and it's um, and it's something that we found among the professorate, among students as well. And of course, I think the free speech skepticism comes from a comes from a good place, but so does all of censorship, you know. So, I I don't think that that's um uh a a strange a strange observation. The observation that the professors who start out more sympathetic um uh tend to be more vulnerable definitely accords with my um uh my professional experience that it certainly seems that way. But then there's also a category of sort of outspoken um conservative or outspoken you know um econic professors that I've definitely seen get targeted quite aggressively um over the years. So, in some ways, I will say that some of your observations come a little bit from luck. Um, because like you get one student or one administrator who decides, I'm getting Scott Galloway and the whole dynamic changes. We'll be right back after a quick break. [Music] What are your thoughts on how the presidents of Harvard uh MIT and Penn handled that situation and generally assess their their response uh congresses or the the congressional committee's viewpoint in this on this and and this is a difficult one and what is the line between free speech and hate speech from people in masks that creates an environment that's unhealthy for for for for the community. There have been critics who have been really critical of th those professors when they went to the anti-semitism hearing in December of 2023. Um there have been people who have been primarily critical of the fact that when asked if calling for genocide um was protected or not on their campus. Uh they said it depends on context. Now here's the truth. It does depend on context and first amendment law. Um if you're uh if you're saying something and particularly in academically if you're saying something theoretically if you're saying something in the course of a philosophical discussion that is different than being like I'm going to kill you. So context is right but the reason why I nonetheless have zero sympathy actually to be fair I have sympathy for the president of MIT because MIT has not been the best but it sure as hell been the worst. Penn and Harvard, Claudine Gay, I had no sympathy for them at all because the reason why I have no sympathy for them is they've been utterly terrible on freedom of speech prior to that point. Um and definitely her critics including people like Barry Weiss have a good point that saying these people who claim to be exquisitly sensitive uh about fat phobia, you know, is the example that she usually uses um were suddenly not caring if someone said something that sounded an awful lot like you your country should be wiped off the map. So what is the line? the line as far as a fire is concerned and we think to a large degree the law is is something that actually crosses the line into anti-semitic or or racial or sexual harassment. And that's not as simple as just saying something offensive. Actually, it can't just be saying something offensive, which by the way, I think is absolutely the right rule. I think the situation for free speech would be even worse if it uh um than it currently is if we didn't have that that bedrock principle which is called in called in the law. It has to be a pattern of discriminatory behavior directed at somebody for it to be harassment. But a lot of what we saw on campus after October 7th, you don't even have to get to that question. A lot of what we saw was uh you know violent attempts to intimidate actual threats in some cases physical assault, taking over of buildings, all of these things that are just not protected nor should they be. And particularly, this is something that I just did a TED talk. Um, and the thing that I and I probably angered some people by opening up with this example, but I want to be really clear here. Um, there was a speech, for example, at Berkeley. There was an uh Israeli Defense Force speaker there. Um, and students organized um to and it's nice to have this actually like in a like in a screenshot of a tweet of a of of a text message to everybody. Shut it down. and 200 students stormed uh where the guy was supposed to speak, you know, broke down a door, broke broke down a window and chased chased the guy off. And it's and I always have to explain, okay, that's mob censorship. Like like like that is an attempt by people to say uh 200 people to say to anybody who would want to hear this person, you're not allowed to hear this person because I don't approve of them. That's not okay. That's the kind of thing that in my opinion should get you kicked out of university because it means you're not actually understanding the point of university. And one of the reasons why this angered some people is because I also tend to point out that from October 7th on all but about three and and the two worst years for deplatforming involving violence and involving um involving shoutdowns as they're called. Um all but three were pro Palestinian activists. So like it was one of these things. We're spending plenty of time defending the free speech rights of pro Palestinian students, pro Palestinian professors, but nonetheless, we were also seeing these same students and uh who expected to be protected by freedom of speech have showing no respect whatsoever for the free speech of others. So, a lot of these issues are actually not that hard. The hard the hardest issue you get into is essentially if it's not a threat, if it's not uh blocking someone from getting from point A to point B, it's just really really offensive. At what point does that actually become uh anti-semitic or or uh racial or ethnic harassment? And the answer is essentially that that that Davis test um that we always refer to a fire which is is it severe, persistent and pervasive such that it causes a reasonable person um to uh be denied effectively in education. So that's that's a high standard, but it should be if you're dealing with something that has an an offense aspect in it. But again, for a lot of these situations, you didn't even have to get to that analysis because what the students were doing wasn't protected in the first place. So, I'm asking this to learn, not to make a statement, but I struggle with I feel like anonymity has been conflated with free speech to our detriment. That that um some of the really vile things you see online, you know, I understand how important it is for individuals to have first amendment and free speech rights, but free free speech rights, but I don't think that applies to bots. And I think that an understandable protection for anonymity has morphed into a total lack of accountability and a real coarsening of our discourse online. And it I think it extends into letting government agencies wear masks and things like that. But I'm curious, I'd love to just get your thoughts on the fulcrum between the importance of people having the right to say things anonymously because what they're saying could trigger danger or self harm or or harm for them and at the same time how this reverence for anonymity may have gone too far and resulted in a lack of accountability and some really ugly spreading online. Your thoughts, Greg? Well, in terms of First Amendment law, anonymous speech is protected. But um but I don't think that's sufficient enough of an answer. Um and I think I tend to think of the justification for anonymity as like a seessaw that especially if we lived in a free and enlightened society in which people welcomed dissent and welcomed disagreement and there was no imaginable idea that you'd be punished for it. um then the justification for anonymity would kind of fall on ring hollow to people. They'd be like, "Who cares?" But we don't live in that world and we live less in that world than we used to. Um because even I'd say 10 years ago uh or 12 years ago before cancel culture, um the idea of saying something that was your genuinely held opinion had a much lower likelihood of ruining your career. Add to it the possibility of being actually punished um in in in some way. Now, that certainly applies to now to a much larger degree than I ever thought I'd see to say wester a lot of countries in Western Europe at this point, a lot of countries in the Anglosphere. I mean, you know, by different estimates, they're arresting something like 30 people a day for offense speech in in Britain. Um, I've heard different accounts, but generally they they go between seven and 40 um uh people being arrested a day a day for that. Uh Germany, you know, like that will brag about the fact that they did morning rate. They did this on 60 Minutes is what um brag about doing morning raids on someone who called a politician a penis. Under that situation, the justification for having anonymous speech goes way up. Can it and is it abused? Absolutely. Um but you know, I I think actually I'm going to quote Milton Friedman here, but it's just a really good quote. Um something isn't a right unless it can be abused. >> I like that. What about so section 230? uh the idea that these naent platforms aren't subject to the same kind of liable, slander, disparagement laws that traditional media platforms. What are your thoughts on that? >> I think we toy with section 30 to our great peril. Like democracy, it's the worst of any system except except all the others. Now, to be clear, there might be some other system that I haven't thought of that could be better. Um but when it comes to things and I but I do find it particularly almost amusing that that that conservatives are going after 230 or were going after 230 with such um uh with such you know gusto because if you actually even let's just take it to the um uh defamation protections that uh 230 gives to ISPs to internet service providers. If suddenly that were to vanish, it would lead to internet service providers censoring a lot more, like a lot lot more, because they can be held liable for for for liable for defamation. And I think that given um the biases in a lot of social media companies, um that would wildly disproportionately affect what conservatives say. So I think that 230 is probably we I I think that overall we benefit so much from 230. Of course, it's going to have downsides, but I'm more afraid of monkeying with it. >> But you see, you don't see an issue that traditional media platforms, which are struggling to stay viable and raise the funds to do factchecking and put out, not I don't want to say the truth, but a greater attempt to do the good work of journalism and fact check and do their research. You don't see that a problem with holding traditional media to an entirely different standard, a higher standard than these online platforms? >> Yeah. And that's generally the way they're held. Um that that essentially uh essentially traditional media that's responsible for the content that they produce. I think it makes more sense to hold them liable for not doing the sufficient factchecking for defamation. Um as opposed to something that hosts everything. I mean, something that hosts the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, um, and every and YouTube and everything else under the sun, you know, is something that's quite distinct than just, you know, um, just the New York Times by itself. >> Do you think there's opportunity for nuance or gray area? And I'll propose a solution or what I think we should think about. I think about 230 a lot. The idea that people can break through and say things impose something and that a company that creates a lot of economic value lets a lot of interesting opinions when sometimes the conspiracy view ends up being actually more true than you think. There's been some just wonderful things about these platforms and the ability for viewpoints and consumers or content producers to kind of go direct to consumer and and and kind of have at it at the same time. Um I I worry that the protection is not consistent in the sense that well let me propose a solution. So if um my co-host on one of my podcasts raging moderates and she's the kind of the sole Democrat on this show which is actually the most watched show on uh cable news called the five. uh someone got upset that she called out Ken Paxton or something and mocked up a picture of her uh with her previous boyfriend and has you know has gone into this triedand-true misogynistic shaming misinformation having an affair from her first husband hasn't been married to I mean just total nonsense right and the algorithm on Twitter loves that because it creates a lot of comments a lot of engagement people weighing in conspiracy theorists and also people protecting her creates more um Nissan ads and the algorithm itself from Twitter is trained to elevate that content and give it broader and further reach than it would organically because it creates Nissan ads. In other words, there's an economic incentive to spread disinformation. Do you think there's a solution or some gray area where maybe we say, "Okay, you're a bulletin board and you can't be responsible. Just it's it's unrealistic. Suppression of speech, economic impairment. if you were responsible for policing everything someone pins up on the board. But if you as a social media company decide to elevate algorithmically content and give it more spread than it might organically at that point, are you really different than an editor at CNBC or MSNBC or at Fox who's subject to a different set of standards? Shouldn't they be subject to the same standards if they make the conscious decision to algorithmically elevate content? I'm always worried about the distortitive impact of uh government uh also regulation sometimes you know um and liability um and so I'm very hesitant to change anything um without um and my job is to make the argument for you know air on the side of free speech as much as possible and heir on the side of as little um as few things being uh banned and as few things being government regulated as possible. So my fear uh is that essentially if you started having government entanglement with algorithmic choices um you know you really got to decide one you know which government do you trust? Do you trust Biden to do that? Do you trust Trump to do that? but also particularly when it's a liability um uh standpoint uh how distortive that actually can be to what gets reported in the first place because this is in a sense kind of like why uh everybody sues for liel in Britain. Even though they've made slight improvements around the edges, it's still much easier to find people guilty of uh committing liel um in Britain than it is the United States. we actually have a shield um uh for for the country basically saying you know providing some modiccom of protection uh for people in the US from uh liel tourism um that that takes place in uh that takes takes place in the UK. So you know I'm always going to be fairly skeptical of that kind of stuff but it's also my societal role to be skeptical of that kind of stuff. We'll be right back. [Music] So I want to throw the kind of the most difficult stuff at you and get your your thoughts. >> That's great. Appreciate it. >> So uh if I were Putin and I were had lost a million men to a war and spending you know 70 to$100 billion a year on a losing war and at some point if this war continued to wreak the kind of economic and human damage if it were to continue to do at some point I might find myself falling out of a window. Yeah. >> Uh, so I think he would be stupid not to weaponize and spin up troll farms in Albania and then create a list of the 10,000 most influential people online who are pro- Ukraine and uh start attacking their reputation with millions of bots. >> Isn't he already doing that though? >> Well, yeah, I think he is. Yeah. >> And that's my question. And that is do bots have first amendment rights and do these platforms have some sort of obligation which I I I think would only be registered or adhered to through some sort of regulation to protect us against bad actors that might be quite frankly raising a generation of military civic and nonprofit leaders who don't like America or begin to have their views shaped and ultimately our votes and our military decisions shaped on outside forces that are taking advantage of very porous and lightly regulated um uh tech ecosystem and platforms. Your thoughts? >> The question of whether or not bots have first amendment rights? Uh of of course they don't. But do bots but do bot creators have first amendment rights? Um at least when they're in the United States, absolutely certainly they do. when you're talking about the kind of propaganda kind of warfare and targeting that is possible in the uh in the age of the internet in the age of social media when you kind of fall down this rabbit hole of how you actually address it without actually devastating uh without having huge government encroachment um which will end in bad places as well um or without creating uh massive unintended consequences. The best way to do this historically has simply to have authorities that people actually trust and we have blown giant holes in the only thing that really can protect you from disinformation and misinformation. Um, and you have to start figuring out ways to get authorities that that people essentially trust because one of the ways we could potentially address some of this stuff is by h having institutions um pointing out uh what is troll farms and and what isn't. Um but in under the current environment, there's going to be a lot of like sure they are um you just don't like what they're saying is going to be the response there. And in a situation where these institutions had better societal trust, it'd be like, "Oh my god, you're right." >> So, you're a First Amendment attorney. What are we not paying attention to in the courts? Have there been any legal decisions that you think are especially uh important to the future of First Amendment or speech or its regulation or lack thereof? What have you come down the pike that you think has not gotten enough attention? >> Yeah, I mean, I think it got good attention, but I think people haven't thought through all the ramifications of it. And this is and this gets to your your your point on um anonymity where we we may disagree to some degree. Um but the uh the change in the law um to uh to say that you can actually require um verification for kids uh and actually really for anybody to use porn sites um in Texas uh is a case that could really have some serious bad ramifications um unless it stays relatively cabined. Now, I was definitely among the First Amendment people saying, "Listen, um there's a case called New York v. Ginsburg from the late 1960s that says you can require um store owners to put the, you know, put the nudie mags, you know, on the back shelves and to make sure that that minors don't get them." Um but then we had decade after decade of the uh Supreme Court and other courts basically saying but online um that can't possibly apply for all sorts of and to be clear very serious reasons. I knew that wouldn't last forever and that eventually uh Texas passed a verification regime um that was actually more complex than I originally understood but was first uh marketed as something where you had to basically show like a driver's license if you want to see porn. Um that would also include um uh that they had to have disclaimers um saying that you know porn is harmful to your mental health and all all this kind of stuff which it has compelled speech issues. I think they they made some efforts to sort of improve the law, make it clear that there's other ways to verify. Anyway, if that stays so that that that fight was something that I predicted we were going to lose in in the Paxin case. Um, now here's the question. Are we then going to with the best of intentions create an environment where you essentially can't use the internet um without identifying yourself in some way? And that scares me because I do actually think that the situation for free speech um even in the so-called free world is dodgier than it's ever been in my lifetime. Um and the idea that this at this precise moment we'd also be make it harder for people to hide what they're looking at or what they're reading um scares me. So our our efforts at fire are definitely going to be to make sure that um that decision as much as possible stays cabined um to uh kids access to adult materials. >> Do I think the platforms are already doing that? Do other platforms already know exactly what we're doing saying and when. But as long as they use it to monetize advertising, it seems to be there's a tolerance for it. I I think the cat's already out of the bag. I think they already know everything we do and what we say. We don't seem to have worried about that. But then we have this do we have this tremendous fidelity for protecting them uh when it comes to any I don't know forward- facing um viewpoints that might result in more I don't know just more it it seems like we're just protecting protecting them in the wrong areas and and not looking at them in others. I apologize for the word salad there Greg. Do you see any inconsistency? >> Yeah. No, I I I I definitely get the concern, but I do think that there are tools that people badly underutilize. >> Well, they're purposely made complicated to utilize. If you tried to regulate your kids content on face on meta, I mean, they are not I would argue they are not readily accessible purposefully. >> Yeah. >> Or they're not easily used. >> Yeah. No, I and I definitely ask for help to make with with my kit stuff. But now we have you know we have signal um you know for example we we we do uh duck.go there are some basic basic steps you can do to somewhat protect your privacy. And of course when it comes to private corporations doing bad things and this is something that I feel like we have an entire um generation of young Americans sort of brainwashed to believe that you should be more afraid of corporations than you should be of governments. And I just think that's absolute nonsense, particularly um foreign um governments, but also also frankly the US government. Um and that corporations, you know, and people talk about that evil profit motive. And I'm kind of like I prefer the profit motive to a lot of the other motives you can have for finding finding this stuff out. and profit motive often lends itself to and by the way we protect our users privacy in a way that you know the Chinese the CCP or or or Russia or even our own government um it's like no we we we want this information for other reasons. >> Well, so just so you know just I'm very good at turning this podcast into it's really just an excuse for me to talk about me. Um Steve Bannon uh suggested that the president that the administration sue me for some of the things I've said about him. I called him a rapist. And do you feel that the president is is in different ways trying to suppress free speech? And if and what laws or what do you think should be done about it? What are your views on it? Feels to me like free speech has been chilled. >> Oh yeah. >> From the administration and just curious curious to get your thoughts on it. Sounds like you agree with it, but what can and should be done to push back on that. So the ways in which it's being uh chilled just really quickly um there's been you know attacks on um mainstream media. Um people can argue that it's deserved but that doesn't mean you get to violate the first amendment. There's attacks on higher education. Again you can feel like it's deserved but it doesn't mean you get to violate the first amendment or or existing laws. Um and then there's the attack on the law firms. Um which probably is the one that I think gets the least attention but probably scares me the most. Oh, >> when it comes to the media, for example, like were the group defending Anne Celzer, um Anne Celzer is the pollster in Iowa who got the poll really wrong, um right before uh the election, saying having Camala up by two points in Iowa. Um but when it came out, uh she apologized. She explained how she got it wrong, saying that she was using methodology that was really effective maybe 10 years ago, but has gotten increasingly ineffective um as fewer people have landlines and that kind of stuff because she used to be considered like the gold standard of pollsters. Um but she was nonetheless sued by the Trump by Trump himself. Actually, this is before um inauguration day for um under a consumer protection act in the in Iowa. Um, and the Consumer Protection Act was really designed for uh preventing false advertising like like as in in commercial speech saying that you know these pills will help you lose 40 pounds a day type things not getting a poll wrong um which is you know good faith reporting. Uh so we're defending her in that case. Then there's also like the the the 60 Minutes uh situation ABC News. The 60 Minutes one I I think of as particularly bad because it really seemed like the um administration was dangling um a proposed merger uh with a with um >> uh with dance >> um in in front of CBS to saying kind of implying we're not going to agree to this unless you play ball which is good. >> Um the university stuff nobody's been a bigger critic of Harvard for example than I've been. Um they have finished dead last in our campus free speech rankings. one of the best and most in data inensive things that fire does or like the most data intensive thing that fire does. Um uh and Harvard was dead last two years in a row. But we're currently defending Harvard because the letter the administration sent to Harvard was basically saying because you're probably in violation of title six, which they may be or and title 7 um which when it comes to admissions probably are um that uh you you essentially have to nationalize Harvard like basically the government gets to decide all of the key things about what Harvard would decide on its own which is not a power the government's been granted. And when it comes to the um the law firms, I mean like that that's the one that I really I I wrote on this my Substack, the eternally radical idea about the um about all of these these cases. And it started with them just going after um attorneys who had opposed the Trump administration, even like people like Robert Mueller um and where they had law firms and and saying that they would be denied their Secret Service uh protection. uh not secret service, their um not secret service uh their um >> repackage violence. If you're someone who ordered a strike on Sullean ahead of the Iranian security forces and you take away a general security detail, you are putting that person in harm's way in my view >> and get rid of their security clearance and then also deny them access to federal buildings which of course include court uh courtrooms. And that's that's to me like some of the most chilling stuff. Now, what can be done about it? uh the most the the thing that's happening consistently is that Trump is losing in court. And so far he's mostly been abiding by those rulings. Um I'm a little bit concerned given how fast and loose sometimes this administration plays with the rules that that might not hold up if when push comes to shove. Um but you know, fingers crossed. Um, in terms of like what else people can do about it, I think it really is a question of what happens in the next uh in the midterms and then of course in the presidential election. Um, but uh it's it's it's troubling but not unexpected. >> Yeah. Shocking but not surprising. Uh, just as we wrap up here, Greg, a lot of young men listen to this podcast um based on some of the many challenges all young people but especially I would argue some young men in our society are facing right now. a lot of them are struggling with their own mental health and I appreciate how transparent and vulnerable you were at the beginning of the podcast talking about your own struggles and you had said that cognitive behavioral therapy really helped you. Can you share uh some thoughts on your struggles with your own anxiety and depression and any advice you might have for young people who are facing their own challenges? >> Sure. Um and that's you know and and it's tough cuz like you know everyone struggles kind of differently. Um and and I I really understand um people's kind of concern about well one of course the expense of getting a therapist uh but also the fear that given that the therapy has to some degree become politicized that they don't want to end up in someone with a therapist who's going to judge them you know for for for in some cases just for being a male or for having um you know non-conforming political views. Um, so I I get all of that. Uh, but but I did hear from one uh friend about their about their kid who basically said he didn't need therapy because he watches a lot of podcasts. Um, and he he's on YouTube a lot getting advice and it's and it's just not the same thing. >> Yeah. That's not the fix. >> Yeah. So, there's people out there like Camilo Ortiz, uh, Ortiz, sorry, um, who is trying to put together aolitical therapists, you know, um, who or ones who won't judge you, you know, who won't let their political opinion interfere with their therapy, which is amazing that you have to do that, but you do, unfortunately. um and and within so looking for people who are who are recommended that way for CBT. There's also some, you know, some approaches to CBT that actually lend themselves fairly well to even apps. Um, which is I don't think it's sufficient. Uh, but it can help. Uh, but here's the thing. Unless you make it a John, when John and I were writing coddling, um, I kept on sort of like changing language back because John was talking about how simple CBT was, and I'm like and I'm like, it's it it um, uh, and or easy. I think I think maybe was like a word that used. I'm like, listen, it may be simple, but it's not easy because you have to do it several times a day. You have to actually do it when those um self-hating voices come up in your head, those catastrophizing voices. Otherwise, your brain will never get in the habit of talking back to those. And you have to do it every time they come up. And you have to do it for pretty like I would say probably you're not really going to see much change uh for the first six months even. But I remember about 9 months in suddenly being like, "Wait a second, all these things that used to pop up in my head, they're not they don't sound convincing anymore." And it was really dramatic after that. So I I definitely believe look into CBT. I think that, you know, um one thing that I do a lot when I'm having a hard time is I go reread Senica's letters to a young man. I I I find that they're really approachable. Uh meditation is very helpful to people. But don't forget things like things exercise is really key. And if you're in it, um, there is something there. My favorite book is Upward Spiral by Alex Cororb. I highly recommend I have like a whole thing. I I have a whole like a Substack um on on this very issue because since I get asked it so much and I give kind of all of my advice. >> And what's that Substack called or what's that post called? >> Well, I don't remember the post is called, but my substack is the eternally radical idea. But also, you know, talk to people about it. Talk to friends. um that when you're in a really bad way, there's a sense that nobody's going to want to hear your hear your whining about it, but that's just not true. Um in in in most cases cuz you know, as hard as it may be made may may be to believe sometimes when you're really deep down and dark, um there are people out there who love you. Greg Lucianoff is a free speech advocate, first amendment attorney, president of FIRE, the foundation for individual rights and expression and co-author of the coddling of the American mind, which has probably had more impact on my parenting than any book I have read. Uh, and also the cancelling of the American mind. His latest book, War on Words: 10 Arguments Against Free Speech and Why They Fail, is out next week. He joins us from Maine. And Greg, I wanted I wanted to meet you and speak to you for a couple years cuz one of my role models, uh, Jonathan Heights, whenever he talks about you, he speaks about you in such reverence and with such respect. Uh, so I was really excited to, uh, have this conversation. Very much appreciate your time. Also very much appreciate, uh, what you said, um, at the end about cognitive behavioral therapy. Uh, and I the the take the takeaway I have and that I hope people take away from this podcast is when you're really down and you think everyone's sick of you and sick of hearing from you and doesn't have time for you, that that that's just not true. Uh, so anyways, thank you for sharing that, Greg. [Music]