What impact do you think the war in Ukraine is going to have on the midterm elections? >> If there has been a series of failed [music] Trump peace efforts or if there has been some kind of Trump Russia, [music] Trump Putin agreement to start doing business over the heads of the Ukrainians and the Europeans, [music] I don't think Americans will find that attractive. Americans still like to think about [music] their country being a good country. You know, we like to think of ourselves being a positive force in the world. I mean, but [music] they don't like the idea that the main motivation of the United States of America [music] is the wealth of a few people who are close to the president. >> And you are one of our favorite guests. I think this might be the third time. Where does this podcast find you? I am in the offices of the Atlantic Monthly magazine in Washington DC, which is a rare occasion actually. >> The Atlantic Monthly in Washington DC. Wow. >> All right, let's bust right into it. We're recording this in the middle of what the New York Times called a week of hasty diplomacy around the war in Ukraine, leaked peace plans, private negotiations, and a swirl of business dealings. Putin is set to meet with US Envoy Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner. And as we speak, no peace agreement has been accepted or signed. And give us the current state of play. What's actually happening on the ground and in these negotiations? So, the negotiations are um a somewhat strange product of a series of conversations that Steve Witco and maybe others have been having with a guy called Kirald Demetriv who's the head of Russia's sovereign wealth fund over the last several weeks and months actually. uh and remembering that neither Steve Whitoff nor Kuriel Demitriov has as their main goal the conclusion of the war and the preservation of the sovereignty of Ukraine and the defense of Europe and a secure future for Europe and for Ukraine. They seem to have as their main goal the creation of a possible new set of American and Russian business deals. And we know this both because of reporting really quite amazing reporting in the Wall Street Journal uh as well as a few months ago in the Financial Times. Um, we know this because the original version of a peace deal that they presented had a whole long list of plans, AmericanRussian plans, including looking for minerals in the Arctic and look, you know, oil and gas infrastructure and um maybe the use of some frozen Russian assets that are in European banks by Americans to develop Russia. So the that seems to be their primary interest. Um and they came up with this 28point peace plan that um was completely unacceptable either to the Ukrainians or to the Europeans. It was somehow then modified um Secretary Rubio got involved, modified, changed. There's another version of it which we haven't seen yet that Steve Wood is supposedly taking to Moscow. I mean really as we're speaking, as we're having this conversation, he's there. What's disturbing about this episode is that it shows something very ugly about this administration. Namely, um, and it raises a question, you know, in whose name are they conducting American foreign policy? Is this for the security and prosperity of America and our allies? Or is this something that's happening on behalf of companies, maybe even some involving the family of Trump or of Witoff, um, who are hoping to make money out of this negotiation. And that's that's where we are right now. Um, and I think it's I I've talked to a lot of people. I can't find an exact precedent in American history before where something this high stakes and at this high level and involving the security of so many millions of people and so many other countries was being conducted by essentially business people whose main interest was business deals. >> Isn't this a continuing pattern? We monetize access to the White House. We've monetized the pardon system. I mean, isn't this a continuation of the core brand association thus thus far? And that is uh one of grift. >> Yes. I mean, I suppose the the the shock for the outside world, and as as you know, I live part of the time in Europe. I have a I have a Polish husband who's involved in all this stuff as well. He's the he's a Polish dipl Well, no, he's the he's a he's the Polish foreign minister. And I'm continually hearing from not just Poles, but from British friends, from German friends. I'm continually hearing this kind of shock and surprise that even this I mean I guess everybody got used to the idea that American politics are corrupt or there are elements of corruption in our system but that even at this level that it would be that corrupt is remains surprising to other people. Maybe it's not really surprising to us anymore but yeah I think you're it you know it is an extension of of other decisions. I mean, we're talking in a week when at the same time, speaking of foreign policy, Trump is also working himself up or maybe members of his administration are working themselves up to have some kind of conflict with Venezuela on the grounds that it's a narco terrorist state. And at the meantime, exactly in the same week, they've pardoned a former president of Honduras who was in jail on cocaine charges apparently because maybe he has business dealings with some people who are around Trump or close to Trump. So, it's a you know, the it looks more and more like the main motivations for everything, you're right, not just foreign policy, are to do with the business interests of people in the entourage. >> Well, just along those lines, I'm I'm curious. you validate or nullify the c thesis. I think with somewhere between if my son had committed a crime and was in prison, I think with somewhere between three and 10 million with my connections, I could figure out a way to get to the White House, communicate, I'm going to make a seven or eight figure donation to the East Wing renovation and get my son out of prison. I I'm I legitimately think I could accomplish that right now. Your thoughts? >> I I would be amazed if you couldn't do it. I don't even know if you need special connections. I mean, you know, you need to make a donation to the east wing or you need to buy into the president's cryptocurrency fund. I mean, there are lots of ways to do it and and you can buy into the cryptocurrency fund anonymously. You can do it, you know, as a as an anonymous shell company. And so, actually, nobody would have to know except the people who who run that fund. And they which by the way includes Zack Witoff, who's Steve Witco's son. I'm not even sure you have to be an insider. I don't know if you have to be a MAGA Republican. I don't think anything ideological is required. I think it's really just money. Before [sighs] we talk about the the piece you wrote for the Atlantic around the peace plan um I'm curious let's let's assume all right we get to some sense of normaly in your view give us a historical context for whether if you do believe that in fact real egregious crimes have been committed here up and down the stack from the secretary of war maybe a war crime to outright grift and and and um corruption that that makes us less safe overseas that will take decades to repair. Historically, when a democracy like ours faces this type of corruption or if you believe that this in fact has been wrongdoing, how does a democracy best move past it? Is it to forgive it and move on or is it to have something resembling some sort of tribunal? I am not sure because I don't know of an exact historical parallel to what we are living through. Um, very often when you have this kind of corruption takeover system, it results in some kind of collapse or disaster or war. And it's usually after the collapse or disaster or war that you have the moment of reckoning when people say that was too much. we need to change our system. We need to change our constitution. You know, we need bigger, deeper changes to prevent this from happening again. And of course, I don't wish something like that to happen. Um, and so I'm not, you know, in the but in the absence of it happening, I don't know how you reach enough people, how you shake the foundation of politics. I I I've just been I've just started to read Jill Leapor's new book, which is um it's about the American Constitution. And one of the points she makes is that often our constitution has been amended at least in the most serious ways after a war. So firstly um after the revolution and then after the civil war that's when we got the the amendments that allowed black people to vote and and change the nature of American citizenship. Then after World War I there were a number of important amendments um women's suffrage uh being one of them. And it's almost as if you need some big moment of change to convince people that, you know, that the foundations of the system um are are are rotten. Um and I I don't right now see how we get to that and the scenarios that would lead us to that aren't aren't good. And so I don't wish for them. I mean, one would really have to have a the only other alternative I can think of is that there needs to be just a lot more awareness um among ordinary people of how you know how bad it's gotten. I you know I I know that a lot of for a lot of Americans this doesn't feel like something new. A lot of Americans, partly because of the way they've been reading and thinking and learning about politics in the last several years, think that Washington is corrupt anyway and everything has always been corrupt and this is exact, you know, it's just an extension of past corruption and explaining to them that this is something qualitatively different that this is a different kind of behavior. Um, that American foreign policy has never been for sale at this level with these kinds of stakes before. I think, you know, the best I can do is write about it and talk about it. Um, and I know you're doing that, too, in order to convince enough people, you know, to to to take this moment seriously and to and have it change their their behavior, make them vote, make them get involved in politics, make them make them participate because it's really without that, it's hard to see. It's really hard to see how you change. I mean, interesting comparison. I haven't written this yet, although I hope to do it in the next few days. I talked this morning to a senior figure who's involved in a corruption investigation inside Ukraine. And maybe you maybe you've heard that there's a there's the Ukrainian state is investigating itself, which is actually at this point in history hard to imagine in the United States. Uh there's a there's an anti-corruption bureau inside the government and they are investigating people some of whom are very close to the president for a kind of kickback scheme to do with the energy industry. Um the details aren't that important. What matters is that it's the Ukrainian state that's doing it. It's as if our FBI was investigating our president, which right now is hard to imagine. You you you can't imagine that happening. And I asked the investigator, "How is it that you have the legitimacy to do this? how do you have the support to do it? And he said, "Look, it comes from Ukrainians." You know, the there was a moment last summer when some people in the presidential administration tried to shut down this investigation. Uh and there were popular protests. You know, Ukrainians understand that this is an important part of their democracy. They want corruption ended. They think it's important not just you not just for moral reasons but because corruption weakens them and makes them more susceptible to Russian bribery and blackmail and so on and you know and so so so this is an this is a state body that's acting with the support of Ukrainians um and I don't know that we have the equivalent movement here you know is there a could you imagine big national protests if well you mean you can't imagine it because it's already happened. I mean, if the president were to replace the heads of the FBI and the Department of Justice with flunkies who would never investigate him, what would happen? I mean, we know what would happen. Nothing would happen because it that's what that's what took place early this year. And I just think Americans have lost the um their, you know, the the ability to be shocked or the ability to absorb the ways in which this is different. And so, as I say, all I can think of to do [music] right now is to explain it to people as much as possible. Support for today's show comes from Apollo Global Management. What if we're clinging to a status quo that no longer exists? What if public markets [music] no longer reflect the economy? What if your portfolio has hundreds of public holdings, but only one story? What if growth lives where the index doesn't? What if large scale projects outlast the capital intended to fuel them? What if private markets power over 80% of US lending? What if a silver tsunami is no longer on the horizon? It's here. What if there's a hole in traditional retirement plans? What if we've constantly underestimated the impact of change? What if the financial world doesn't work the [music] way you think it does? These aren't just hypotheticals. In a world moving forward, your thinking can't sit still. [music] Reserve your first edition at apollo.com/ask ask [music] whatif support for the show comes from groons. The holidays are a time to indulge, but even if you're eating more than you typically do, you might not be getting the nutrients you actually need to end the year on a high note. Grun may be able to help you fill the nutritional gap so you can enjoy it all guilt-free. [music] Gruns is a convenient, comprehensive formula packed into a tasty little pack of gummies. This isn't a multivitamin or greens gummy or prebiotic. It's all of those things and then some at a fraction of the price. And bonus, it tastes great. Every Grun snack pack is filled with 6 g of prebiotic fiber, which is more than what you get in two cups of broccoli. Plus, Gruns are nut, gluten, and dairyfree vegan. include no artificial flavors or colors and are backed by over 35,000 research publications. Don't let the holiday travel, hosting, parties, and late nights set you back. Give yourself a little extra support so you can enjoy all the holidays magic. Get up to 52% off with code props.co. That's code propg.co. [music] Support for the show comes from him. It's winter, which means it's much easier to hide your hairline with that wool cap you wear [music] day in day out. But when the weather heats up, you're going to have to address what's going on underneath that hat. You shouldn't have to rearrange your life to deal with hair loss. Hims makes expert care accessible on your schedule so you can focus on feeling like yourself again. Hims offers convenient access to a range of prescription hair loss treatments with ingredients that work, including shoes, oral medications, serums, and sprays. Plus, [music] HIMS brings expert care straight to you with 100% online access to personalized treatment plans that puts your goals first. No hidden fees, no surprise cost, [music] just real personalized care on your schedule. For simple online access to personalized and affordable care for hair loss, ED, weight loss, and more. Visit hms.com/propg. [music] That's hs.com/propg for your free online visit. hymns.com/propg. Individual results [music] may vary based on studies of topical and oral minoxidil and finestreed. Future products includes compounded drug [music] products which the FDA does not approve or verify for safety, effectiveness or quality. Prescription required. See [music] website for full details, restrictions and important safety information. you wrote for the Atlantic about this peace plan uh which many are actually calling a capitulation document. Uh can you break down the quoteunquote peace plan for us and what you think is the likelihood that something that something resembling this ends up getting more traction than it has today? >> The there are a couple central pieces of it. I mean, I think the most controversial piece is that the US is promising to recognize um all or most of I mean, there's several there now several versions of this kicking around. So, I'm I'm going to be a little vague, but all are all or some of Russia's um of the occupied territories of Ukraine. So, that's Crimea, that's eastern Ukraine, Donbas, Luhinesk, and maybe some of the other territories too. But more than that, it it asks the Ukrainians to give up territory that has not been conquered. So this is a part of Donesk. Donetsk is a province of Ukraine. The Russians have conquered part of it. In fact, they conquered a lot of it in 2014 when as a part of a surprise attack right after they um occupied Crimea. Um and they've really been trying to conquer this whole province since then. So 11 years. And they haven't been able to do it. And they're now losing, again, I spoke to someone last night who reminded me of these numbers. They're now losing 15 to 20,000 people a month trying to conquer Donetsk. Um, and that's I guess that's that's killed and wounded, but that's still 15 to 20,000 soldiers being knocked out every month in order to conquer this piece of territory that they can't conquer. And what they want is they want the Trump administration to intervene and give them this territory for free. Um, and this this is not only controversial because it rewards the Russians for for nothing. Um, but also it's probably politically impossible. I don't think President Zilinski could stay in office. He can't stay in office and just turn over this piece of land. Um, it's right now very heavily fortified land. um it's not it's not especially um you know populated anymore. Most people have left that part of Ukraine, but it's very heavily fortified. And so the Ukrainians would be giving up this fortified territory. And that would allow the Russians then to set up presumably to make another attempt to conquer central Ukraine later on. And that's what it looks like to the Ukrainians, you know. So the Russians haven't been able to win the war militarily. Now they're trying to win it through bribing the Americans, promising things to the Americans, and then um you know, getting the Americans to pressure the Ukrainians to give up this territory supposedly in the name of peace. So that's probably the most controversial piece of the um of of the deal. And that seems to be something that Putin himself thought up. And it's it's been kicking around for a while. And in fact, when I first saw this document, I didn't think I didn't make that much of it because it's been some of the points have been around for a long time. And it was only when you'll remember a couple weeks ago, the president said the Ukrainians have to sign this by Thanksgiving that suddenly that this became salient and relevant in in in new ways. And then print, you know, then he dropped that idea. Anyway, um so that that that was a piece of it. um recognition not just de facto but dur meaning formally recognizing that the Russians now control this Ukrainian territory which also would be very unpopular in Ukraine. There was a there was a line in it about how about organizing Ukrainian elections which if you think about it is a strange thing to put into a peace plan. I mean the Ukrainians organizing elections is something they can do on their own and um and and what about the Russians organizing elections? The Russians haven't had free elections for 20 years. So there you know it had that element in it that the Russians were somehow wanted to change the Ukrainian leadership and maybe hoped to shape the elections. That was the second piece of the piece of the story. There was also um Ukraine has to promise never ever ever to join NATO and has to put that in its constitution. Again, pretty controversial. Don't know whether that could be done. Uh and uh that that Western powers, European powers would promise never to put troops on Ukrainian soil. And all this also creates another problem which is if this war were to end even right now, you know, if there were to be a ceasefire on current lines, which is something the Ukrainians have accepted, in order for the peace to be real, in order for it to last longer than 6 months or a year or two years, there has to be some reason for Ukrainians to believe that the war isn't going to just start up again next week. So, there has to be a guarantee. There have to be troops. There has to be NATO or something like NATO. There has to be something that will prevent Ukrainians from fleeing the country once the once the borders are opened. There has to be something that gives people the belief that they can invest in Ukraine, that they can rec rebuild Ukraine. There has to be something that makes it a viable country. A lot of people often compare Ukraine to South Korea, which is another country that was divided and part of it was occupied. And nevertheless, South Korea remained a viable state and it went on to become a very rich country, very successful country, kind of culturally successful in lots of ways. And people have said maybe that's a model for Ukraine. And that's it's true. You could you could imagine that kind of future except that you South Korea has American troops. You know, South Korea has um defense agreements. You know, South South Korea is defensible and Americans have been willing to defend it for many decades or at least that's been the that's been the assumption of the North Koreans and you need something like that in Ukraine to make it viable. And it just doesn't seem like Witoff or Jared Kushner or whoever is doing this negotiation now has come up with a version something that would that would that would give the Ukrainians that sense of stability. So this is why people are talking about it as a kind of surrender drug. I said we give away land and in exchange for what? For you know certainty that the Russians are going to invade again. The problem with this document then as I've already said there are all these weird clauses about US-Russian deals that are going to be done and money that the US is supposedly going to spend in Russia and it looks from the outside like it's a USRussia deal that just isn't worried about the future of Ukraine or the future of Europe because you know a fallen Ukraine or a or a dysfunctional Ukraine has huge impact on security in Poland in Germany all across the European continent and it just feels feels like the Trump administration doesn't care. >> So, you spent a lot of time in Europe. Your husband is a senior official in the Polish government. What is the vibe, for lack of a better term, in Europe and especially in the nation's border in Ukraine around the war right now? Is it stay the course? This is an unacceptable cost for Russia and Russians and eventually they will retreat. or is it we're facing an inevitable end which isn't which isn't a a good [clears throat] one? Like what I like what Lincoln said, you can't win a war without public support. You can't lose one with it. Where what is the state of public support across Ukraine, Eastern Europe, and Europe more broadly as it relates to this war. >> So the Ukrainians are genuinely prepared to keep fighting. Um their losses are far lower than the Russian losses. um they know that they need outside support and most of the nations of Europe, certainly those closest to Ukraine, Scandinavia, um the Eastern Europe, um uh Germany as well, have, you know, are continually stepping up, offering not just weapons, but money. Remember, the Ukraine has its own defense industry. It makes its own drones now, including these long range drones that hit that can hit Russian targets and Russian refineries and so on. Um, and we I was there in September and at that moment there was still a lot of confidence. You know, they were pretty sure they were going to make it through the winter. They didn't expect the Russians to stop fighting anytime soon. I mean, there's been a little bit of um the the the the huge pressure from Russian air strikes in the last month or two, I think, has been um um this and this is on Ukrainian cities. This is nothing to do with the front line. This is people, you know, bombs hitting Kiev, missiles hitting residential apartment buildings and so on. I think that's been um that's been pretty debilitating. But they don't, you know, you have to remember that if you're Ukrainian, you don't really see an option. you know, your option is you keep fighting the war or you let the Russian win and then they destroy you and your family and they wreck your country anyway, you know. So, it's not like they have this great choice, you know, and it's not like if the war ends then that everything will be fine. Uh, and I think that for the most part, I mean, there are variations inside each country. I think most of the countries around Ukraine feel the same way. you know, for Poland, you know, or for the Baltic states, you know, for Romania. I mean, if if if Ukraine were to lose, that wouldn't mean, oh, okay, the war is over now and we can get on and do other things. No, that would mean it would be more expensive and they'd have to spend more money on defense and there would be more panic about where the Russians would go next and there would be more chaos from Ukrainian refugees and more economic disruption. So, so the so the the prospect of a Russian victory doesn't make anybody feel like that would be an improvement. And so they too have this feeling that there's no choice, you know, so that the that they will keep fighting um until they until some some better solution is is reached. Um and I should say there's another weird thing about this whole USRussia negotiation, which is that it seems to they seem to be acting as if the Ukrainians and the Europeans have no agency. I mean actually the Europeans are now paying for the war. You know there is almost no US supplies going in. Um they're paying for the war. They are supporting Ukraine economically. You know so actually even if the US did bow out they could keep going. I mean and the and acting like this negotiation is some kind of US-Russian agreement that doesn't involve the people who are actually doing the fighting and who are paying for the fighting is also very weird. I mean, it's just it's just not how you do diplomacy. It's not going to get you to an, you know, it's not going to get you to an agreement that that that makes sense. Um, and that that's again why I question the motives of of the people who are involved. >> Isn't that sort of the silver lining here? And that is the US has somewhat abdicated, withdrawn, gone awall, whatever you want to call it. And my understanding is that uh we are still supplying weapons but we're forcing the Europeans to pay for them. >> Not in not in huge numbers and and the weapons that we're supplying the thing that we have that other people don't have is air defense. And so it's mostly that but most of the most of the other weapons are coming from Europe or they're being made in Ukraine. But isn't back to the notion of silver line isn't to be fair and I feel like Europe is always is every headline on a on a broad basis about Europe as a whole is a pretty negative one about a lack of growth. It's becoming a museum. There's a lack of leadership. Hasn't Europe really stepped up here and filled this void and is in fact pushing back? >> Yeah. I mean, not not only are they pushing back and not only are they have they stepped up often in ways that aren't attracting attention, you know, there's a lot of Danish help for Ukraine and the Norwegians have been really important. There's a lot of smaller countries have played an important role. Um but you've also had I think especially since the US election last year I think there's been a real transformation in European understanding you know so the you know of course everybody's natural instinct is to say you know the war is far away it doesn't touch us you know and everybody prefers the status safe status quo to to involvement in some kind of unknown project and I think you are finally beginning to see especially in Germany, which is important because it's the largest European country, biggest economy. Um, you're you're seeing a real transformation like, okay, we get it. You know, that the the the post 1989 era is over and the automatic assumption that the US will see the world the same way we do and shares our values is also over. And maybe we'll work with the Americans again in some way. I mean, nobody's writing them off altogether, but we're in a different era. And you can see that beginning to affect European politics in a lot of ways, especially in Germany, but but also in other places, and you see investments going into the defense industry, new thinking about strategy, new kinds of relationships. I mean, a lot of things are changing. It's not it's not ideal, mostly because Europe is not a federation. I mean it's funny for all the kind of euroskeepics about you know overbearing Europe and how it's supposedly you know they're creating a single state and so on actually it's not a single state and that's the problem you know so it's very hard it's still hard for Europe to act as one and that's why you have this formula the coalition of the willing you know you have this group of countries who are working together you the ones who and the ones who care the most are involved the most uh and that coalition of the willing is the is the group that's supporting Ukraine. Um but no, there's there's been a big change in Europe and European strategic thinking and in European understanding of the world. And you know, I think the um you know, the the big the big realization that Europe has made a huge mistake in allowing the US to dominate the new technology, defense technology, but also the internet, AI. I think that's it's it's sunk in. I mean, everybody gets it that that was a a disastrous, you know, European failure. Um, whether there's time to catch up, I don't know, but you you certainly have now the formation of new companies and new thinking. I mean, I know you're you're interested in that. Um, that that's that's begun. And, you know, it's interesting to see the connection between this geopolitical shift, which is happening kind of in the ether, and people saying, "Right, okay, we need we need our own stuff." And that's that's happening now. If you have an absence of US funding, uh limited limited cash of weapons from the US going to Ukraine and it's Ukrainians fighting on the ground doing the fighting in combat and you have Europe is responsible for the majority of the funding or the intelligence when what feels like a peace plan architected by Russia and the US. I mean is quite frankly can Ukraine and Europe and maybe have done this kind of say hold my beer and and to a certain extent haven't has hasn't the US I mean okay we've walked away from our responsibilities but haven't we walked away from all leverage here and it quite frankly it doesn't really matter what we think >> we I mean there to some extent that's true I mean I think that the I think people are still hoping the US will have some influence there's a lot of you know maybe you know, maybe false hope. Um, I think there's, you know, there's a fear that a USRussia condominium, you know, kind of USRussia deal would be bad for everybody and we'd like to avoid it. So, I didn't think people want some kind of huge break with the United States. Um, but yeah, I mean, the the United States is not going to be able to dictate what happens in Ukraine, and they certainly won't be able to dictate a bad solution. And by bad solution, remember it's what a bad solution means that Ukraine is so badly weakened that Russia can invade again. That's like that's the bad solution. Um, and I don't think the US is going to be able to dictate that even if that's what they're, you know, even if that's what they want. So, no, the US doesn't has fewer and fewer cards and is going to have less and less influence as time goes on. I think that's true. Support for the show comes from Avant. Startups move fast and with AI, they're shipping even faster and attracting enterprise buyers sooner. But big deals bring even bigger security and compliance requirements. A sock 2 isn't always enough. The right kind of security can make a deal or break it. But most founders and engineers can't afford to take time away from building their company to focus on that. That's where Vanta comes in. Vanta's AI and automation make it easy for your company to get big deal ready [music] in days. And Vant says they continuously monitor your compliance so future deals are never blocked. [music] Plus, Vant scales with you, backed by support that's there when you need it, every step of the way. [music] With AI changing regulations and buyers expectations, Vant knows what's needed and when. And they built the fastest, easiest path to get you there. That's why serious startups get secure early with Vanta. Get started at vanta.com/profg. That's venta.com/propg. vanta.com/profg. [music] Support for this show comes from LinkedIn. If you've ever hired for your small business, you know how important it is to find the right person. That's why LinkedIn Jobs is stepping things up with their new AI assistant, so you can feel confident you're finding top talent that you can't find anywhere else. And those great candidates you're looking for are already on LinkedIn. In fact, according to their data, employees hired through LinkedIn are 30% more likely to stick around for [music] at least a year compared to those hired through the leading competitor. That's a big deal when every hire counts. [music] With LinkedIn Jobs AI assistant, you can skip confusing steps and recruiting jargon. It [music] filters through applicants based on criteria you've set for your role and surfaces only the best matches so you're not stuck sorting through a mountain of résumés. LinkedIn Jobs AI assistant can even suggest 25 great [music] fit candidates daily so you can invite them to apply and keep things moving. Hire right the first time. [music] Post your job for free at linkedin.com/prof. Then promote it to use LinkedIn jobs new AI assistant, making it easier and faster to find top candidates. That's linkedin.com/prof to post your job [music] for free. Terms and conditions apply. Support for the show comes from Shopify. If you run a small business, you know there's nothing small about it. As a business owner myself, I get it. Every day there's a new decision to make and even the smallest decisions can feel massive. What can help the most is a platform with all the tools you need to be successful. A platform like Shopify. Shopify is the commerce platform behind millions of businesses around the world and 10% of all e-commerce in the US. [music] From household names including Mattel and Gym Shark to those brands just getting started. That's why they've developed an array of tools to help make running your small business easier. Their point of sale system is a unified command center for your retail business. It gives your staff the tools they need to close the sale every time, and it lets your customers shop however they want, whether that's online, in store, or a combination of the two. Shopify's firstparty data tools give you insights that you can use to [music] keep your marketing sharp and give your customers personalized experiences. And at the end of the day, that's the goal of any small business owner, keeping your customers happy. Get all the big stuff for your small business right with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start [music] selling today at shopify.com/propg. Go to shopify.com/propg. shopify.com/propg. [music] You have I love this a kleptocracy tracker on your substack. What's the most boring shift you're seeing right now? What is this metric unearthed? >> Right. So the kleptocracy tracker is something I started in this is regarding our previous conversation. I started a few months ago um just as because I felt like there were all these news stories that flashed by you know people being pardoned after making donations to the president's cryptocurrency fund or um you know or or regulation being lifted or regulation not being enforced and I just felt like someone should keep track of it somewhere and so I started doing it and it actually appears on a John's Hopkins website as well. The Agora Institute also publishes um they even created a little graphic so you can track it and click on it. I mean I don't know you know h how many people look at it or use it but I'm hoping like at least historians of the future will be able to say that somebody was paying attention. Um and I you know there really two or three important shifts. I mean, one of them is this one that doesn't get attention I just mentioned, which is it's not just that the Trump administration is making money for itself or it's, you know, Trump companies are benefiting from deals with the Saudis or investments in Vietnam. It's also that the this administration is either refusing to enforce laws made in the past or is actively preventing new laws from being made. So, so, so laws designed to prevent for, you know, the the foreign corrupt practices act, for example, or laws designed to regulate the cryptocurrency industry so that ordinary people wouldn't be ripped off. You know, all kinds of regulation that's designed, mostly designed to benefit ordinary Americans and make sure that our system isn't corrupt and that people aren't ripped off by by US or foreign companies. A lot of that is just being taken away. you know, they're just not enforcing it. They don't care anymore. And of course, the bad actors know that. And so, when they see the legal system being taken apart and they they know it's a free-for-all, they can they can just remove money from people's cryptocurrency wallets, which happens um more often than you think. Uh you know, or or um you know, or they can violate the law or they can you know, they can do as they please because they know that nobody's watching them. Um, and I think that's and that doesn't get a lot of attention because it's not, you know, it's not very exciting news to say that the Trump administration has decided it won't enforce X or Y law, but that's going to create the long-term problems. You know, if we create this atmosphere of lawlessness where, you know, you can buy a pardon from the president if you've broken the law, you can assume that nobody will enforce regulation if you decide to break it. um you can rip people off and you won't pay any price. You can do all these things with impunity. I mean that begins to create a kind of business culture that is ultimately bad for everyone. I mean I guess you know bad guys will benefit from it. But if you've ever lived or worked in a really corrupt country, and I I have um um you know I I I spent a lot of time in Russia in the 1990s. Um I spent a lot of time in Ukraine actually in the era before it began to reform itself. Um and I mean maybe particularly for ordinary people you know daily life is different in a really really corrupt country. You know you you don't make um business investments in a normal way. You can't make judgments about how to work or where to work unless you know, you know, who's really in charge or who's the person behind each one of these companies. Um, you know, it it it distorts ordinary life and ordinary decision-m. Um, you know, in in you know, in Russia, universities became very corrupt. Um, the state services became very corrupt. I mean, if you wanted a driver's license or any kind of license, you could pay for it. And people people knew that. and then that has a corresponding effect on safety and so on. So, you know, so it you you can get into this very ugly downward drift if you don't stop it soon. And as I said, I mean, the main problem in the United States is just the lack of awareness. I mean, we're so used to our system running on autopilot, you know, assuming that people more or less most people obey the law and more or less, you know, things work. And once that once the a kind of critical mass is reached and that's no longer true, then it's going to be very hard to fix. >> What impact do you think the war in Ukraine let's assume that it in say 9 10 months it's loosely in the same place it is now. Right. I wouldn't describe it at a standstill. I would describe the war rages on. What impact do you think it's going to have on the midterm elections? I mean that's an interesting point. I it depends what what it looks like. Um you know if it looks like exactly like it does now you know maybe there wouldn't be an impact. But if there has been a series of failed Trump peace efforts that were transparently grifting that they weren't really about peace or if there has been some kind of Trump Russia Trump Putin agreement to start doing business over the heads of the Ukrainians and the Europeans I don't think Americans will find that attractive and maybe I'm wrong maybe won't care you know foreign policy is far away. Um, Ukraine is pretty remote to a lot of people. Um, but I still think and and this is something I know because I've seen surveys about this, Americans still like to think about their country being a good country. >> You know, we like to think of ourselves being a positive force in the world. I mean, >> reasonable people can disagree about what that means, you know, and and um maybe not everyone's definition of good is the same, but they don't like the idea that the main, you know, in the big issues and in the big arenas that the main motivation of the United States of America is the wealth of a few people who are close to the president. I [snorts] just don't think Americans are going to like that. And I I don't know that it would be the main issue in the midterms, but I think it would be something that would certainly affect people's perception of Trump and maybe of the Republican party. >> It's it's strange. It feels as if, and I don't know if this is Trump or more specifically the cloud cover for this being the idolatry or the increasing idolatry of the dollar in the United States, but it feels as if diplomacy itself is being replaced by private capital networks, sovereign funds, energy deals, rare earth investments, data centers, and that the reporting shows that billionaires operating outside of the traditional lines of diplomacy, whether it's WhitF or Kushner on the US side, uh uh Kel Deitriv on the Russian side hammering out drafts in Miami and shuttling between Mara Lago and Moscow. A what do you think of this and I think I know the answer to this. What do you think of this business versus diplomacy? And are there any analoges for when other nations basically diplomacy gets co-opted by what I'll call these private capital billionaire networks? That that is literally the Russ that is exactly the Russian system. I mean the Russian system is that you have companies like Gasprom which are nominally private but which are really owned by people who also run the country. Um and they use you know their Russian foreign policy has been uh kind of commercial and diplomatic and political all mixed up for a long time. And the purpose of a gasprom investment in a foreign country would be partly to make money for the people who run gasprom and partly it would be to achieve some goal you know for the Russian state and you know and and particularly in oil and gas but not only you know Russian companies have there have been inseparable from the state for a long time and it's created you know this ugly system where all of government and all of foreign policy is really just designed to benefit benefit this kind of ownership class. Um, and we are really very much at risk of that in America. That every you know that government isn't for everybody. It's not for to make all of us rich and prosperous. It's not to project a set of American values into the world, which has been true at least some of the time of American foreign policy, certainly since the Second World War, but you could argue further back than that. Um, and instead of being this, you know, the kind of outward representation of us and our values and our, you know, our desire for prosperity and a good life, it's actually just designed for those people. And that's really how the, you know, I mean, Russia is maybe the most prominent example of this, but you can look at other autocratic states and say the same thing about them. I mean, this is the argument of the my recent book was Autocracy Inc. is that it's a mistake to look at um the the world's autocrats even when they have different ideologies. You know, Russia and China and Iran and North Korea, Venezuela and Azarbaijan, you know, they have very different ideologies, but they all often work in some of the same ways. And one of the ways that one of the things they have in common is this kleptocratic model. you know that the rulers of the country are also the owners of the biggest businesses and they use their business relations with one another to make money for themselves. uh and they hide money in the same ways. They hide money in the Caribbean or in um or indeed in Delaware and they um and they move money around the world anonymously and they share ways of doing that and that's part of what keeps them all in power and it it looks and you know the Trump administration is still not free to behave in that way. you know, we still live in a democracy and we still have um you know, we still I hope we'll have congressional investigations and we have courts and so on, but they they seem to be pushing the country in that direction. And clearly there are very wealthy people in the tech world and in the crypto world and in other industries who want the US to develop very much in that direction. kind of um a state where political power and economic power are the same thing and you know the politicians own the companies and and they act in their interests not our interests. Uh so I love uh books about war and movies and one of the things I think I've sused out from them is that wars don't change history they sort of accelerate it and that is they take existing trends and massively impul forward if you will and countries on the ascent come out big winners and countries you know arguably Britain's finest moment was World War II but it essentially accelerated the decline of the empire right they could no longer hold on to their empire if you will within Europe. Who do you see as a if there's a reshuffleling here and a dramatic increase or decrease in power? And I'll put forward a thesis. My sense is this is a really big moment for Poland, but A, do you agree with that? And B, who do you see as the biggest winners and losers across Europe? Yeah, I think Poland is um Poland sees itself very much as being a country that will play a role in deciding what happens next in Ukraine um and will play an increasingly influential role in helping other European countries shape their security decisions. I mean there's some interesting there's there's a very close Polish Swedish relationship. The Polo just bought some submarines from Sweden. um you see this kind of scan these kind of countries around the Baltic becoming um working together in lots of ways and actually often including the UK. So you kind of UK, Scandinavia, Baltic, Poland alliance which is emerging as a really important alliance of countries just because they share values and they they have a similar view of the world and they work together in new ways and you're seeing that emerging. I mean there's also a Polish German relationship that's really important. Um, actually the Polish government, I'm I'm not sure they're still there today, but as we're speaking, they they were there yesterday. Several senior Polish ministers, including the prime minister, were all in Germany. You know, there was a kind of big, you know, multi-levelled, multi-layered um conference was held in which they they they you know, there's still endless historical issues to work out, but in which they're looking at ways of working together economically and in security. I mean you you can see those kinds of links developing and becoming more important. You know it's almost as if in the past a lot of stuff went kind of through NATO like through America. You know there was a Polish America German link and now everybody's looking around and saying wait you know is is is going through America or through NATO is that safe? you know, we need to we need to have much stronger countryto country links that don't depend on the you know, some assumption of of of permanence permanent American presence in Europe. So yeah, I think Poland Poland is also a country that is doing well economically and it looked at over the span of 30 years has been doing well the whole time. I mean, it's it's it's it caught up to Western Europe. >> You know, it's not exact it's not it's still not as rich as Germany, but I if I recall this, you'd have to I'd have to check. I think it's richer than Greece per capita, and I think it's richer than Portugal per capita. Um, and so if you're looking at Western European countries, so it's it's caught up to Western Europe faster than it has ever before at any time in history. and and and and continues to develop and grow in a [clears throat] way that um you would not have guessed or imagined a couple of decades ago. So yeah, I think I think Poland up Germany changing. Um I mean the UK is the country that worries me the most. Just because I think the damage done by Brexit is still working its way through the system. Doesn't mean there aren't brilliant people there and great companies and and all that. Um, but I it's it's it's it lost so many markets and so many opportunities through that one stupid decision um that I I worry it's falling further behind and I I don't want that because I'm a I lived in London for a long time. I'm I'm a I'm I'm a I'm a fan of British culture and many other things. But that's that's what it there's it's interesting there's often a lot of in the UK now there's almost a kind of they keep writing articles in the British press about how great Poland is and you know what if Poland catches up to Britain. I mean it's almost there's a kind of cultural snobbery there like it can't possibly be the case that polls are rich [laughter] as we are. [snorts] Um but but there is something happening whereby they are they're coming certainly they're a lot closer in terms of of GDP per capita anyway than they were ever before. >> Do you have a sense for having spent time in Russia and I imagine still having contacts there. How do Russians feel about the state of the war and the relationship with the US and China? What what's the vibe again I hate to use that word in Russia right now with respect to the war? >> It's really hard to say. So, first of all, my I had a lot of Russian friends at one point and they are all gone. They have all left Russia. They're in elsewhere in Europe. Some are in the US. Um, and so I don't have, you know, I don't have friends inside Russia anymore. At least none none that I would be able to talk to. It's also, you know, genuinely impossible to measure something called public opinion in Russia because this is a country in which to be against the war is illegal and people are arrested for saying things that are against the war. And so that means that if you know if you're conducting an opinion poll and you call someone up and you say, "How do you feel about the war?" What are they going to tell you? They're going to say, "I'm all for it." you know, it's a it's not a um it's not something that you can measure and and there isn't also a kind of public sphere in which these things are discussed. It's not like there's a place where people talk about the war and debate its whether it's good or bad in any real way. So, you know, so what are people's opinions is it almost doesn't matter because they won't tell you what their opinions are um because they keep them to themselves. I mean, I do have um there's a part of the Russian opposition that measures kind of sentiment on the internet. They use those kinds of metrics and they say that um exhaustion with the war and disappointment with the war are pretty widespread. And another metric you could look at is the number of Russian elite people in the Russian elite who have fallen out of windows or have succumbed to mysterious accidents in the last couple years. And almost all of those are probably people who in some way were seen as insufficiently enthusiastic about the war or about Putin. So, it's it's pretty clear there's um you know, if Putin were to say tomorrow the war is over and now we can move on. I think people would be happy. Um they would probably be very happy to um end this, you know, terrible number of deaths. I mean, imagine United States, imagine 20,000 people a month dying or being or being mortally injured and how that would affect us and how we would be >> we wouldn't do it. I mean, isn't that unthinkable. >> Isn't that quite frankly Russia's core competence is willing to endure more suffering far more than Europe or the US. There's no way we would do this. No way we would let a million Americans be injured or killed. We would have we would have found a reason to, you know, get a helicopter on the embassy and get the hell out, you know, a year and a half ago. And I think we consistently underestimate the Russians willingness to subject their citizenry to pain. >> Yeah, I think we do. I don't think the Ukrainians underestimate them. I mean, my last a lot of recent conversations I've had in Ukraine have been with people who say, "Right, we get it. The Russians don't care how many people we kill. I mean, we're going to go on killing them because that's how we keep our country sovereign." Um, but they shifted strategy some months ago and they began really focusing on hitting Russian oil export and oil refining facilities. And they do that because they say, "Okay, they don't care about people, but they care about money and they care about wealth." And so we're going to try to hit them in the places where they're making the most money. And actually just in the last couple days they've started hitting tankers. Um so far it's empty tankers just in case you're worried about oil spills. Um they hit a couple of tankers that were going into a port oil tankers. I think they were under a Gambian flag, but we all understand that this is called the Shadow Fleet. We understand that they're they're Russian or they're carrying Russ they're going to be carrying Russian oil. Um, and they also have had this campaign to hit Russian refineries and they've hit some several dozen of them and they do it repeatedly and they do it almost every night. Um, I was in a I was in a Ukrainian long-range drone factory in September and they showed me these drones. They were they were like little airplanes. They're they're large. These aren't little drones. These are huge drones. And I said, "How many do you make?" And they now make a hundred a day. These are very sophisticated little planes. And how many do you launch every day? and they say we launch 100 a day. They have this permanent now campaign of hitting Russian oil and gas infrastructure all the time. And this is when they describe it to me, they say this is the real sanctions. The sanctions that the US and Europe do are now full of holes. The US isn't really enforcing them anymore. Um it's too easy for everybody else to buy oil and gas from Russia. And so we're going to make it more difficult. And that's now a really important and very under reportported for reasons that I don't really understand, but a very underreported part of how Ukraine is fighting as well. Um, so they they understand that we they you know, killing people won't win the war, but maybe doing enough damage to infrastructure could. And their theory of victory now involves that, you know, we do enough damage um that they at least have to stop fighting. Um, and that's, you know, but but you're right. I mean, killing a million people, so what? >> So, in our remaining 3 minutes here, and you've been generous with your time, I want to move to something much lighter. You said that you had lived in Russia. I know you've lived in the US. What other nations have you lived in, Ann? >> Uh, I lived in London. I lived um I lived in Poland. I live in Poland, actually. I live I spent about half my time in Poland. >> Warsaw or >> uh I live in Warsaw. And then we have a house in northwest Poland as well in the country. We renovated old house. Um I haven't really lived anywhere else but I spent a lot of time flying around and staying in other places. Um spent a lot of time in Ukraine. >> So stack rank, you're 25, you're thinking you have some skills, a lot of geographic mobility. stack rank the best the upside and the downside of living in all those nations for a young professional. >> Well, Russia's out. >> You don't want don't want to be kidnapped. Um, honestly, if I had the right kind of skills, and I don't um but maybe a young person would, I would be trying to work in the Ukrainian drone industry. >> That's >> It really feels like that could be the fuel that rebuilds that economy. >> It will. I mean, once the fighting stops, they're they're now so far ahead of everybody else. Everybody's going there to learn how they're doing it. >> Um, including Americans and including the British and including the Poles, obviously. >> Uh, I would do that, you know. I So, actually, the country where I see the most innovation and where things are really exciting is there. I mean, obviously, you know, you have to be pretty tolerant of of loud noises at night and so on, but um but but I would do that. And then you know I yeah I mean Poland um Poland once you overcome whatever cultural differences there are and there are some um it's still a country where there are all kinds of wide open spaces you know there are kind of things that haven't been done and companies that haven't been created and I I would think that um that would be a great place to live and I don't know I mean for me the London is still the greatest city in the world and I'd be happy to I'd be happy to be transplanted there again any time. So >> that's a that's a nice note to end on that wouldn't it be nice if when this war is over the Ukraine becomes a magnet for human capital and potential and optimism and economic growth. I like the I like the thought of that. Ann Applebomb is a Pulitzer Prizewinning historian and staff writer at the Atlantic. She's also a senior fellow at Johns Hopkins. Her books include Gulog a history red famine Stalin's war in Ukraine and her latest autocracy. and she joins us from uh the Atlantic office uh in Washington DC. Ann, we absolutely love having you on. We have [music] um our listeners are generally um kind of younger and uh more male and I I I just love that we introduce them to historians and really thoughtful people that they may not come in contact with across their other channels. So very much appreciate uh your time [music] and and how in demand you must be right now. Thanks very much, An. >> Thanks. It's always a real pleasure to talk to you. Thank you. [music]