It feels like we have a new era or we're in a new era of financial markets where the government is literally taking equity stakes from private companies. What do you make of this kind of state capitalism, Kai? >> It's state capitalism. I don't understand how the party of free markets and smaller government suddenly became under Donald Trump the party of state capitalism. And we all know that had Biden or Obama done it, Washington would have exploded. it would have just been he would have been impeached like like three days ago. I'm not sure it's a healthy thing for the general economy. Um and I know it's not a healthy thing for the government of the United States to be so heavily vested in state capitalism. >> Ky, where does this podcast find you? >> I am in uh St. Paul, Minnesota, corporate headquarters uh of the company that owns Marketplace American Public Media. All right. Well, listen, we very much appreciate you here uh being here and we have a bunch to get to. So, let's start off with the government shutdown. Um we're in the midst of a shutdown, which means we're kind of flying blind in terms of economic data. Can you paint us a picture of what you're worried about or paying attention to uh right now? >> Yeah, I'm worried about two things. Uh three things. Uh the first thing I'm worried about is uh obviously and most importantly the data, right? we're not getting the government data that's helping the Federal Reserve figure out which way this economy is going to go. Uh and this is an interesting and a critical moment for the Fed, right? I mean, the New York Fed came out this morning in its monthly survey and said consumer expectations for inflation are actually going up. And as we know, uh inflation expectations can actually drive what inflation does. So the idea that consumers think inflation a year out is going to be 3 and a half% or better is really challenging. So this is a perilous moment for the Fed just data wise setting aside the politics of it and we can get we can get into that if you want to. So that's that's the first thing I'm worried about. Second thing I'm worried about now with this shutdown um of course federal workers but federal workers who are on the lower end of the end cut spectrum right because they're the ones who've been getting whacked low-income consumers have been getting whacked by the tariff passroughs that have happened already. Um they're the ones who are in the foulest mood. They're the ones who have the least disposable income. uh and they're the ones, you know, let's call it the bottom like 60% of the income spectrum um whose spending is falling off, right? And those uh in the top end are, you know, inflation's a pain in the ass for everybody, but most of us can bear it if you're in the top end. If you're not, that's a real real challenge. Uh and then finally and and most importantly I think on a on a macro scale is what it says about the in just complete inability of the government of the United States to run itself and to manage what is for now the most important economy in the world. And it's I mean it's just it's beyond parody. What I find potentially more fragile is that that data where the top 10% are now responsible for half of consumer spending. And if there's a bit of a shock or a slowdown or AI begins to unwind and the 10 companies driving 70% of the earnings gains, if there's a little just a I don't even call it a chill, but it goes from 74 and breezy and sunny to 72 for the top 10%. They can easily take their spending down 10, 20, 30%. Whereas the bottom 90, you know, they can't cut their spending that much because they're kind of spending money on essentials. Do you worry? I worry that we're increasingly fragile because a small number of people are essentially holding propping up the economy right now. Your thoughts? >> Yeah, look, that's actually been the way for a long time now. Consumers overall, as anybody who listens to marketplace and probably listens to you knows consumers spending by or on behalf of consumers drives 70% of everything that happens in this economy. And you're right that that spending now is being concentrated in the top part because the lower half has to buy food, has to make its car payments, has to do all of those things. And when it's that concentrated and we are on this cusp of tariff impacts now finally starting to leak through and consumers saying, I don't know, then where does that leave us? You know, it's I I think this is a more perilous moment than than a lot of forecasters are guessing. What are the data blind spots that matter mo most for the Fed or investors or for the average person where you know we're we're flying without instruments right now. What do you think is the most valuable data that we're not seeing? >> Yeah. Look, I I think uh always it's the jobs data and then for the Fed secondarily PCE right personal consumption expenditures and what inflation is. And look, there are a thousand PhD economists who work for the Fed and they've got all kinds of private data. But the catch is twofold. One is private data is proprietary and not everybody's willing to share it. But number two, a lot of times that private data is based on the public data that the government puts out. And so when we don't have that foundational information of what's happening, then that renders the Fed, okay, soft landing, we had that whole thing, you know, a number of months ago, a year ago, whatever. The Fed's finally going to do it. Let's complete the analogy here, right? The the Fed had this economy on final. Tariffs came in and then the weather went to right? Right. And when the weather goes to hell and your instruments aren't reliable, which is where the Fed is right now, what can you do? And and my guess would be, and I don't know, I haven't spoken to Chair Pal in a very long time. I've had, you know, Fed presidents on the program from time to time. My guess is that they're kind of hanging on by their fingernails. >> You're I think loosely my generation. And when I talk to you, >> I think we're like the same age actually. >> Yeah. Yeah. I think we are. Um let's just say we're 50, Kai. Um let's say that. >> Let's say that. So a word that I find people under the age of 50 are not familiar with and that I think is we may be on the the precipice of is stagflation. So I see inflation uh going up. Core inflation I think hit 3 and a half hit or 37. And meanwhile it looks as if the jobs market is shaky. And so this this chocolate or this not chocolate and peanut butter which is a good thing but this nitro and glycerin which is a bad thing of low growth and inflation stagflation which is just the worst of all worlds. Do you share my fears around that? I I agree with you, but the most recent indicators for GDP growth are like 3% plus. The Atlanta Fed does this GDP now tracker which has it like at 3.8% for the current quarter, which is really high. Now, is that sustainable? I'm not sure, but we're not in stagflation yet. A lot of the indicators are happening. Inflation, as you said, the labor market being really jittery, right? We're in this low hiring, lowfiring labor market environment, right? There's not a lot of churn. Not a lot of people are getting laid off, but not a lot of people are getting hired either, which makes it tougher to find a job now. So, we've got two out of three, and I think the the real question is what happens with economic growth uh in this quarter and then first quarter of of next year and where that winds up sticking. >> Do you worry, and I'm asked this, I really don't know the answer to this question. Is that 3.8 a number juice because imports are are taken out of GDP growth and because imports have dramatically decreased that number is somewhat artificially inflated if you will. >> Yeah, I think that GDP number is actually challengeable because if that's even a word challengeable because of that exact formulation, right? C plus I plus G plus net exports, right? And the and the problem is the tariffs have pulled all those imports forward now and the numbers are not skewed, but they're a little bit what's going on, you know? >> Yeah. Let's talk about tariffs and trade. There's been talk of a potential bailout for American soybean farmers who've been completely thrown under the bus by Trump's tariffs. Um, Hill Republicans estimate Trump could need to send as much as 50 billion to farmers hit by his own tariffs. roughly half the revenue raised from those tariffs so far. Can you walk us through the economics here and what's actually happening to farmers? >> Yeah, they're they've actually gotten shafted. That's the economics of it. Look, I we've got a soybean farmer out in Iowa that we talked to uh not infrequently and I had her on about two weeks ago. Uh she has zero orders. She she's fine sort of cornwise, right? Because there's lots of other uses. But the American soybean farmers have had zero Chinese orders. It used to be the biggest market, right? And now because of the president's trade war, the Chinese are not buying American soybeans anymore. They're going to Brazil and other places. So all these soybean farmers now are looking at a market catastrophe truly because their largest market has disappeared because of the president's policies. So here's what's happening. We're we have now a heavily tariffed environment. Let's all remember that tariffs are taxes on American consumers and businesses. It's not China that's paying the tariffs. It's not Canada that's paying the tariffs. American consumers and businesses are paying the tariffs. It is a tax. So all that money is going into the Treasury without congressional authorization. By the way, it is taxation almost literally without representation. So that money is now in the Treasury. The president is going to and in ordinary times of which we are not in, the president would need congressional authorization to get these bailouts to the farmers. The president's going to take some of that tariff money and redirect it to farmers so that we don't have that American farming catastrophe. It is a crisis completely induced by the president. The pain being borne by American farmers who are now being subsidized by the taxes that are the president's tariffs. It's it's the most bizarre circular logic you're ever going to find. And my sense is I mean this is sort of starting a fire and then charging taxpayers for the cost to put it out, right? It it's just a circular doesn't make any sense. Do these did these farmers ever have viable businesses? Was I mean have we not been propping up these farmers? And also on the back end, my sense is this business is not coming back. Even if we were to restore or do away with the tariffs, China has established secure supply routes or sourcing from Argentina and Brazil as you referenced that this the bottom line is the American soybean farmer is is going to be a thing of the past. >> Yeah. So look, American farm policy for the past 80 years is a conversation for a whole different podcast and I'm not well versed enough. But I can tell you those markets are, as you say, never ever coming back and and my corn and soybean farmer in Iowa knows it. I talked to a corn farmer in South Dakota. He knows it. So now they're they're looking for these markets. I mean, you know, April Ems is a woman I've been talking to for for honest to God, it's been 10 years. She's been on this land since she was a little girl. And now what's she going to do with it? You know, and American farming is is challenging in the very best of times, right? It's it's brutal and it's hard and it's you are at the mercy of so many elements. And now they're at the mercy of the president of the United States. Trump announced new tariffs on movies, furniture, and other imported goods. How far do you think he has to go before he totally alienates his base here? >> So, you forgot trucks, by the way. He came out like yesterday, medium heavy trucks now, 25%. Um, this is the question I've been asking almost since the beginning and and it's twofold. One is what's it going to take to make people realize what is happening, right? And and the correlary of that is for our leaders and for our elites in academia, law, business, take your pick. How long will it take them to realize they are on the wrong side of history? Um because this look, we're we're less than a year in um and one imagines that it will end because it has to. The question is what's the forcing function? What's it going to take for people to understand what is happening here? And this is a much larger conversation than just the economy, right? But I I bring it up because the institutions of this economy, all of them depend on the institutions of this democracy. Rule of law, transparency, fair regulation, the right of recourse when wronged, all of those things. And if people don't understand that that's what's under threat, how do they expect the economy to survive? Right? There was there was a statistic out this morning. foreignborn students are it's just cratered this fall because of the president's immigration policies and for uh his conversations and and well conversations is putting it very m charitably what he's doing to higher education you know immigrants to this country look immigration is a labor market problem but it's also a source of innovation and dynamism and intellectual vigor that we are now not getting because the institutions of this democracy are under fire. >> And I don't know about you, I've actually been struck at how resilient the economy has been. I would have thought if someone had laid out these policies, I would have said, "Wow, that recession here we come." And it appears that I must think of that analogy that, you know, twothirds of an of a of a iceberg's mass is below the water. And it what I I mean one of two things is happening. Either we're wrong about the president's policies and they're not you know there's some merit to them or two the reality is that the American economy is this juggernaut that quite frankly it's like don't bother me I'm just going to continue to grind on. And have you been surprised at how resilient the American economy has been? >> I am completely surprised. Uh but there's there's a couple of warning signs. Right. First of all, I'm obliged to say here, and as you know, the stock market is not the economy. And the stock market is not being driven by economic fundamentals right now. It's being driven by AI spending to the tune of hundreds of billions of dollars. And whether or not that's sustainable is, I think, very much up in the air. You're you're far more versed in that than I am. Uh the American economy is a 29.9ish trillion dollar beast. And so the tariff impact so far has been relatively small. It's the uncertainty, I think, that's actually been driving the small businesses saying, "I don't know if we can do this. We're going to have to raise prices." And then that trickles down to the consumers. But I think there's a there's another thing that's that's happening here. And and you know, the president and his cabinet officials will tell you the president's um they give three excuses for the tariffs, right? One is to revitalize American manufacturing, one is to generate revenue, and the other one is to protect American jobs. Um, the problem is that you can't do all three of those things at the same time because if you revitalize American manufacturing, then we're going to start importing less and you're going to have less revenue. We haven't got the workforce that wants to do a lot of the jobs the president is trying to protect. He announced furniture tariffs like 10 days, two weeks ago. I was talking to a furniture guy a week ago in North Carolina, which used to be the hub of American furniture manufacturing, and he said, "I there are not 5,000 woodworkers that I can hire to make my high-end furniture. They just don't exist in this country anymore." And so the president is trying, and this is not my original thought by any means, the president is trying to take us back to an economy of the ' 50s, '60s, and 70s. And it's the world isn't that anymore. It's just not. [Music] Support for the show is brought to you by CVS Caremark. On this show, we talk a lot about money. We talk about money on a large economic scale, but we also talk about the cold, hard cash, the dollars, and cents at the center of just about everything. And that's the sort of money talk that's on most people's minds. How are they going to access and pay for the things they need like prescription drugs? CVS Caremark plays a vital role in the healthcare ecosystem by helping to ensure coverage of medications to their clients plan members at an affordable price. Interested in more affordable care for your members? Go to cmk.co/stories to learn how they can help you provide the affordability, support, and access your members need. Support for the show comes from LinkedIn. We say this all the time on our show, but it bears repeating. Running a small business isn't just a full-time job. It's about a dozen full-time jobs that you rarely, if ever, get to clock out of, at least until you get to the point where you can start hiring the dream team. And if you've made it that far, you already know there's no time to mess around. That's where LinkedIn Jobs comes in. LinkedIn makes it easy to post your job for free, share with your network, and get qualified candidates that you can manage all in one place. And LinkedIn's new AI feature can even help you write job descriptions and then quickly get it in front of the right people with deep candidate insights. And if you decide you want to go the extra mile to find the perfect candidate, LinkedIn says that promoted jobs get three times the number of qualified applicants. It's all these little things that let you find help fast without compromising on quality, which add up to you finally having extra time in the day for, I don't know, relaxing. Or knowing my listeners, you'll probably use that extra time to expand your empire even further. Post your job for free at linkedin.com/prop. That's linkedin.com/prop to post your job for free. Terms and conditions apply. [Music] We're back with more from Kai Rudolph. I'd love to get your thoughts on the recent uh Secretary of War summit. You spent eight years in the Navy and I'd love to get your reaction to Secretary Hegsth's speech to roughly I think it was about 800 admirals and generals at Quantico where he told them essentially to I saw it as embrace MAGA or quit. Uh I what what were your reactions when you saw that speech? I um uh it was disgraceful. It was laughable and it was an embarrassment to the armed forces of the United States. and and people need to understand, you know, I've been in journalism now for 25ish years, but but the most important thing to know about me is that I'm a veteran and and how that shapes um how I see the world. Um uh look, Secretary Hath is unqualified. Full stop. I am as qualified as he is to be the Secretary of Defense, and I'm not I'm not qualified. Right. Um uh I I was heartened in that speech to see all those flag and general officers sitting on their hands um and doing exactly what one would expect of them. Uh I am I I feel badly for them because they're going to have to go back to the troops and and explain what the hell happened and what the marching instructions are. and they're going to have to do it in a way that maintains unit cohesion and the viability of the force and and that's going to be really challenging uh because of the way the secretary and also the president treat the military as if it's here's the quote they are his generals which of course they are not. I think honestly a more troubling speech was the thing that the president did this past weekend down in in Norfolk to uh to celebrate the Navy's 250th anniversary. And he had behind him uh enlisted and a couple of officer members of the Navy and he walked out and he said, "Hey, this is a rally." I mean, this is literally what he said. He said, "Ah, it's a rally. Who are we kidding?" And the crowd behind him, all active duty military, went crazy. They were applauding, jumping up, down, just cheering them on, all of this. And that to me is ju it's I don't understand how the commanding officers of these sailors let that happen. It if professionalism in the service means anything to you, it means that you are a political and that you, as the flag and general officers did at that speech in Quantico, you sit on your hands. Now, of course, that's not why those guys were chosen. And there is some measure of the American military, probably sizable, that is in favor of the president. But that ain't it. That can't be it. And it's and it's deeply deeply damaging. >> Talk a little bit about your service. What what was the motivation for joining the Navy? And I assume you were in it longer than you you were commissioned or obligated to. You're in for eight years. Give give us some color around your service. >> I um so when I went to college, I thought I was going to be a lawyer. Uh, and I I took all those, you know, pre-law courses and this and that. And then when I was a a freshman, I had a very good friend of mine who was a um I was a sophomore. She was a senior. She was five kappa, you know, maxed out her elsats, all this jazz. Applied to all the top law schools and got into none of them. Um, and I said, "Well, you know, screw this. I don't I don't need to go to law school." So, I farted around for a couple of years. And then and then um when I was a senior, a guy who had been a fraternity brother of mine a year ahead of me came back uh on leave from Navy flight school. Um and that uh it just it it appealed to me. It's um my father served my father got his citizenship by serving back in the 50s. So I took the entrance exams. I went down to officer candidate school in Pensacola. Um, got my wings and then went to the fleet. I flew E2C Hawkeyes off the USS Theater Roosevelt for three years. I did. >> So, you you were a pilot. >> Yeah, I flew. >> I did not know that. I I would have thought you were too tall to be a pilot. >> No, you know, that's so interesting. That's the second time in a couple of days somebody has said that. No, when I was uh in the recruiting station, you had to do all kinds of anthropometric measurements. They sit you in this seat and they measure your, you know, your tibia length and your upper body and all this jazz and and I fit. So, so you know, >> and what was the aircraft you flew? >> I flew E2C Hawkeyes, which uh they're now E2Ds. They've been upgraded, but they're large turborop aircraft, carrierbased that have the big radom on top. So, the uh the mission is command control and and airspace battle space management. Um, so I did that for three and a half years. rolled out of my fleet squadron on August the 1st, 1990, which if August the 2nd, 1990 rings a bell, that's when um Saddam Hussein went into Kuwait. So, I rolled out of my fleet squadron right before they got uh alerted to go to the Gulf. I I wound up in the Pentagon and the Joint Chiefs of Staff for um I guess the rest of my service. I was like two and a half more years, right? Flight training was two. Yeah. So, I was in eight years soup to nuts the last couple years uh on staff duty at the Pentagon. Um, look, it it um it it defines me to this day. It it is a sense of obligation and gratitude for what the military and this nation has given me. Um, and I um and that's why that's why honestly that's why what's going on now is just so just disturbing and horrible. >> Do you think we'd benefit from mandatory national service? >> Oh, yeah. I've I've advocated for that forever. I think we would be a different country. We don't know each other anymore, right? We don't and and look, it's a generational thing. And and I I try to I try to, you know, even my own kids, I try to get them to understand this. And and you know, my service, I imagine they're proud of it, but I don't think it resonates with them in a this is what I want to do kind of thing, you know. And do you think that type of national service um you know should would just be the military or different options around senior care? >> No, look there is there are zillion ways to serve. Teach for America, Americanore, you know, what have you, right? In fact, we don't have the capacity to do all to accept all the national service volunteers that we have. Our programs are not big enough. We have more volunteers than we can take. Right? It's setting aside the military. Let's let's not make it a draft, right? Because that just complicates the issue in a zillion different ways. But if you're just looking at national service, we don't have the infrastructure to support all the volunteers who want to do something for this country. So obviously, we would have to spend money and Congress would have to appropriate and we'd have to get all the programs up and running. But I believe it's a worthwhile national goal because as I said I there's the the the gap in our knowledge of each other is enormous and and that changes who we are as a society. And look I I don't think you have to look any farther than the current political environment to see that [Music] support for the show comes from Shopify. If you run a small business, you know there's nothing small about it. Every day there's a new decision to make. Even the smallest decisions feel massive. But if you have the right platform, you can approach all of your decisions with confidence. Shopify is the commerce platform behind millions of businesses around the world and 10% of all e-commerce in the US. From household names like Mattel and Gym Shark to brands just getting started, Shopify lets you tackle all your important tasks in one place. from the inventory to payments to analytics and more. It makes the marketing minefield easy with built-in tools for running social media and email campaigns so you can find new customers and keep them. And if you're looking to grow your business internationally, Shopify has global selling tools to help you in over 150 countries. Get all the big stuff for your small business right with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial and start selling today at shopify.com/propg. Go to shopify.com/propg. shopify.com/propg. [Music] Support for the show comes from Silicon Valley Bank. Silicon Valley Bank is deeply embedded in the company's products and services that form the innovation economy. They are a proactive partner that helps bring their clients vision to life. And they fuel high growth companies with tailored solutions and the hands-on support that turn potential into performance. And now SVB is a division of First Citizens Bank. First Citizens Bank has always been dedicated to highly personalized service and supporting emerging sectors. That's why buying SVB made sense for First Citizens Bank and for you. SVB clients can help benefit from this combined commitment to tailored solutions, incredible service, and deep expertise from a top 20 bank with a national footprint. So, if you're serious about being a part of the innovation economy, there's really only one bank for you. Silicon Valley Bank. Yes, SVB. Learn more at svb.com/vox. And this is not in the script but uh we have been a client of SVP at Propy Media and my company before L2 for better part of a decade. [Music] We're back with more from Ky Rdall. Just to pivot back to the um economy right now, it feels like we have a new era or we're in a new era of financial markets where the government is literally taking equity stakes from private companies. The Trump administration now holds positions in Intel, MP Materials, lithium Americas, Trilogy Metals, and even a new golden share in US Steel. What do you make of this kind of state capitalism, Kai? It's state capitalism. I don't understand how the party of free markets and smaller government suddenly became under Donald Trump the party of state capitalism. And we all know that had Biden or Obama done it, Washington would have exploded. It would have just been he would have been impeached like like 3 days ago. Um it it is in in my opinion uh not a healthy thing for corporate America. Um I'm not sure it's a healthy thing for the general economy. Um, and I know it's not a healthy thing for the government of the United States to be so heavily vested in state capitalism. It just it's Look, there are a zillion problems with American capitalism. Two zillion problems. But the government taking actual equity stakes or taking profits from Nvidia for sales of certain chips to China, I how does that help or fix anything? I don't understand it. And it's and it's I I don't Look, this goes to a much larger conversation about about what has happened to our our political elites who see these things happening. Republicans specifically who have the power, all the power in Washington. Um and are uh in private saying one thing and then in public saying, "I'm sorry, I didn't see the tweet." You know, um I I don't know. So it feels as if we have two uh and I like what you said before and I agree that the stock market is not the economy but within the stock market you have 10 companies responsible for 70% of the gains. There's I think it's a misnomer to say the S&amp;P 500. I feel like there's the S&amp;P 490 and the S&amp;P 10. And you're talking about just two totally different universes. The S&amp;P 10 is largely driven on, you know, AI or optimism and expectations around AI right now. as someone covers these stories every day. What does your gut tell you about where we are with not only with AI, but it's it's the expectations in the runup in the in these stocks? My disclaimer here is that uh I'm not a financial analyst. I'm not a market specialist. I'm a guy who's been covering the general economy for 25 years. I don't actually control any of my own investments. my wife uh because number one she's better at it and number two she's more interested in it is in charge of of all of our money um and the other reason is because I should not have a platform that I have and be talking about these companies with a stake in them. So just just to get that on the table um look that which cannot go up forever will not and the rate at which AI spending has been exploding seems to me to be unsustainable. The other catch, of course, is that all of these data centers and all of these tools that are being built out aren't actually going to employ a whole lot of people. And in point of fact, what AI is going to do is make a whole lot of jobs in this economy not necessary anymore. And that I think is the is the economic flip side of this explosion. At some point, the lack of returns in real economy terms from this AI investment is going to land and that I think is going to be a real challenge because the economy has been built now on the S&amp;P 10. We've been writing or I've been thinking a lot about how AI is going to impact Hollywood and the creative community in Southern California. And it just it feels as if I went to um I my kids are a little bit younger than yours, Kai. I had so I have to go to I have to endure superhero films. And I went to see the Fantastic Four. And the thing that just blew me away was the credits were 7 minutes long. And I did some research. 3,400 people worked on this film, which is more people than worked at Red Work at Reddit or Lyft. And I all I could see was uh the Greek glands of Sam Alman going, "Oh my god, wait until I la." Have you guys done any stories or do you have any observations around um there's we make this general assumption and I think it's probably correct that there's going to be some labor force destruction at the hands of AI. Have you done any stories or do you have any thoughts specifically around AI as it relates to kind of the creative community in Hollywood? Yeah, let's preface this by saying even before AI really hit the Hollywood community, movie making in Southern California was really challenged, right? Other places are offering tax incentives, Georgia, right? So, so that's really part of part of the problem. Um, so we do have folks who who do AI stories. the the the thing about AI that that gets me every time is that the hype around AI coming from Sam Alman and the like uh is what's driving all the hype around AI, right? Alman is going out there saying we can we're going to create this I mean this this new video platform that they have Sora whatever the hell it is. I mean what what are we even doing that we are taking a video platform and making it produce or letting people produce just completely fantastical videos that we are now going to just watch like we watch Instagram and actual people. So the destruction of the creative class I think is is very real. And then and then the extension of course is you know creativity is what makes us people and consuming the arts cinema, movies, TV, actual art is what makes us humanity. And if that becomes machine driven then where do we go? Speaking of which, or the the media community, obviously you're you're a key figure in in the media and in the news media. Curious, >> you're giving me too much credit, but thank you. >> Uh well, it's funny. I sort of I I you're little I think the Wall Street Journal, The Economist, and Kai Rzdoll were some of my early like prompts around being interested in business. the what I'm cur any thoughts on um the Ellison's acquiring free press and Barry Weiss being appointed editor-inchief of uh of CBS. >> So, look, there's there's a whole rant to be had on the media and what it means in this moment. Consolidation of media power is in and of itself challenging to a democracy. Right? look at Jeff Bezos and his personal ownership of the Washington Post and what it has meant for that once great paper. Um, the idea that Ellison now controls a major movie studio and one of the big three broadcast networks, even though broadcast television is in secular decline and he's appointed Barry White, Barry Weiss, excuse me, uh, an opinion journalist as it is editor-inchief. I mean, I can't imagine what it's like actually inside CBS News right now. I I imagine, you know, she gave this speech this morning. I don't know when you guys are going to drop this pod, but she gave this speech this morning introducing herself to the CBS new staff, and I I have to imagine eyes were rolling all over the place. Um this because this is such a perilous moment for this democracy. The importance of accurate factbased not afraid to use actual words for what's happening journalism is critical and and you see the New York Times slowly turning the corner from false claims to lies. Just for instance, a credulous media will be the death of this republic. It really will because unless we're actually willing to say what is happening, and as a federal judge said the other day, the president's position is untethered from the facts, speaking about Portland, uh unless we're willing to say that in our journalism, we are we are failing this democracy. So, uh, just a couple thesis or I'll put forward a couple thesis and you respond to them. I think a lot of people see the free press as being a necessary counterweight to what has become an increasingly progressive media complexion that sometimes uh has its own its own issues with the quote unquote the truth because the truth sometimes does not I don't know fit into a progressive orthodoxy. Any you know any thoughts on that? So, look, I I think uh the the mainstream media, for lack of a better phrase, uh is generally progressive. Uh but I think it is also blindered and hindered by its centuries of journalistic invention, which has led it now not to call uh a lie a lie. We're we're slowly making that turn. And look, this applies to marketplace as well. But it is it is incumbent upon us to broaden our horizons at a time when sorry, that's a stupid phrase. Broaden your horizons is a is a trit phrase. It is incumbent upon us to actually say to our listeners, our viewers, and our readers what is what is what is factually happening as opposed to some euphemism. to the point of the free press in particular. Right. Look, free press and and conser conser small C conservative traditional conservative media is fine, but when you have propaganda outlets that are operating under a tenant of, oh, we're just doing journalism from a conservative perspective, that's not what is happening, right? You you are not actually doing journalism. You are carrying water for an element of the body politic that is seeking to deceive and to manipulate the people of this economy and this country. >> Would you describe CNN and the New York Times as being propaganda outlets? >> Uh I I would No, they're not. They're not propaganda outlets. That said, I've got problems with with some of the things both of them do, as I'm sure they have problems with some of the things I do. Right. that's that's it's not, you know, tit for tat here. Um, but when you have the reach of CNN and when you have the reach of public radio and when you have the reach of the New York Times, you do nobody any service by both sides, by using euphemisms, by not saying what is actually happening. you know, we've we've had this conversation inside marketplace and I've had it with the corporate bosses. And I sometimes I win and sometimes I lose. Um but but if I'm not telling people what is happening, then I'm I it's malpractice. >> I've been struck by how much attention the acquisition of Free Press has received. $150 million acquisition. >> Well, $150 million, right? That'll get you. Well, but there's there was an $80 billion merger among railroad companies. There's been five five acquisitions of of 8 billion or more in the last week, and no one really cares. Um, I I find that and maybe for good reason, the media is sort of obsessed with itself, but I guess my question is the following. Does CBS even matter anymore? Does it matter who's running it? I mean, I don't know anyone that watches CBS. It feels I look at CBS, NBC, and ABC and I feel like it's 21 minutes of the exact same damn thing and then a cute story about a bear that a woman's feeding hamburger helper to every night. It just Do the Are these guys are they relevant anymore? >> Yeah, I think that's a really good point and it's tough to argue. I I will only argue for what it symbolizes, right? uh CBS, the Tiffany network, the network of Walter Kankite and Edward Ar Muro, and maybe I'm I'm way naval gazing on journalism history, but there was a point where those names and more importantly what they stood for, right? Muro gives the, you know, television just tubes in a box unless we do it right. um what they stood for and I think that's what is now being being sacrificed as opinion journalism goes mainstream. You know, Barry Weiss won't be able to decide, you know, how many cameras to send on a story and she probably won't be involved in foreign desk assignments, but she because David Ellison said so will be able to influence what it is that CBS News does. And what she does is opinion journalism for which there is a place. Um but but at that scale and and in that vessel of what CBS News used to be once was um is I don't I don't I I think that's the the my mental disconnect on that one. How are you guys um evaluate you're presenting? You're a key figure in um in public media or the public media program marketplace. How are you guys adapting? Like what's working, what isn't? if you as you try to thread the needle between economic viability and and thoughtful fact check journalism, which by the way is I find it's just a shitty business and economically really challenged. How what do you what do you think you guys are doing well and not well and how are you adapting to this new environment of media while trying to stay true to the roots of journalism which sometimes quite frankly is just not economically viable? >> Yeah. Look, so we inside marketplace uh and inside the corporate structure that that owns marketplace um we are we are uh really challenged in how we go from a legacy media outlet, right, where marketplace used to be appointment listening. It was drive time. It was people making their dinner and and it used to be on the radio. And now, right, that's all gone since the pandemic. Ain't nobody driving anymore, right? And podcasts are up and and all of that stuff. So our challenge now is to meet people where they are and to develop this multi-channel strategy where we're going to do video, we're going to do on demand, we're going to do broadcast media because oh by the way broad for marketplace broadcast is where the money is. So the challenge now for for me and if my corporate bosses hear this, well, we'll see what happens. But the challenge now for me is and me and and meaning the larger marketplace enterprise is to convince our parent company that investment in marketplace as we make this transition for which we are late by the way to a multi-channel uh operation will pay returns that will make up for the loss of broadcast revenue. Right? our broadcast revenue is up here. Our on demand revenue is down here. And we clearly need to change that. We need to stabilize it and equalize it or it needs to go like this. And those are the conversations we're having, right? I mean, I'm I'm on a trip to corporate HQ now to talk about philanthropy and development and donations and and all of those things because the public media news model, set aside for a second the recision and the withdrawing of funding for the CPB. Public media right now is in a really challenged space as we make this transition to multi-channel on demand and video from a legacy broadcast outlet. Kai, where do you get your what are your go-tos for information? I'm always asked this question and I never have a good response because I think I'm a little bit embarrassed about how I have transitioned from the New York Times, The Economist, the Wall Street Journal to quite frankly social media. I'm now I have great people on TikTok and on reals economists and people I think are really really smart that no one's ever heard of that inform my viewpoint before you take to the radio which is you're obviously going to read the facts but you're also going to have a spin on you know it's I won't even call a spin you're going to have thoughtful color on stuff where do you find color on the economy who are your trusted resources >> here here's so I do in essence I have done and my my journey has been the exact same Right. Going from the times and the economist and the journal and all those to social media. The the thing I spend most of my time on honestly in news gathering is going uh finding a thing on social media and digging down on that. Finding a nugget, finding a person, right? I mean there are so many really interesting people on social media. Social media is a hell hole in a whole lot of ways. But you find people there and then you follow them and then you read their writing and then you read their substacks and that's how you gather and you synthesize and then by the time marketplace goes on the air hopefully I have a coherent view on what is happening that day not just from the times in the journal but from people who have look and you got to you got to test their credibility and and all of those things. But once you've done that and you realize that they're the go-tos, then you you use them and you synthesize their information into the way you present whatever we have chosen as our lead story or whatever the feature story is. >> And just as we wrap up here, you're kind of rounding third in terms of your career. Have you thought about >> Thanks, man. Well, you're you've you you're an iconic whether you like it or not. You're sort of an iconic figure that kind of marks marks the the medium or at least the approach to the medium. What professionally, well, I'll say and personally, what I've been thinking and there's a lot of this is projection because I'm just so freaked out about being 60. I can't stop thinking about the fact that it's, you know, we're we're not on the back nine. We're on the 18th hole is the way I see it. And like what have you what have you thought about professionally? What boxes are left for you to check? And also if you're comfortable like personally I think you're you're you guys are now empty nesters, right? >> Yeah. So our youngest child, our daughter, we just dropped our daughter off at school two weeks ago. >> Oh, congrats. I would love for you let's start there. What was that like? >> Uh so the the the good part is it's going really well so far. So we dropped off from school. We took a a long slow drive down the California coast back to LA. Uh we had three or four days to just sort of decompress, you know. Um she she was ready to go, you know. She was like, "Okay, see you later." Right. And and my wife and I were like, "Oh, really? Okay, bye." And um >> uh and and then we got back home and we kind of slid right in. Um the house is quieter. um we we are not buying as much food which makes total sense but after so you know we've been parenting kids for 27 years our refrigerator has been stocked I have three boys who are you know just ginormous eaters so the amount of food in the fridge is just shockingly small um but but the mental change to the two of us is going really well I think it's um we are rediscovering um how to be a couple again with kids bopping in and out every now and then. On the professional front, um, as as I like to say to the kids when they were little, you know, dad, what do you do and do you know this and are you a celebrity and all that, I'd be like, you know what, I'm a pretty big fish in a very small public media pond. Um, so the next chapter now, I figure I've got one left, maybe two if I play my cards right, is increasingly on my mind. Uh, where do I go from here? I am indelibly associated with Marketplace and the Marketplace brand, which to be clear is a privilege and an honor, right? I'm I'm super proud of the work I've done at this program for for 20 years, 25 in the shop. Um, now, where do I go? What do I do? And and not to, you know, I don't need to blow smoke up your ass, but I'm I'm always impressed when I listen to you um talk about your career path about how you bet on yourself. And that's my challenge now is to bet on myself and figure out where I'm going to go. >> Kyus Doll is the host and senior editor of the public media program Marketplace, the nation's most listened to show on business and the economy. Uh so anyways, brother, thanks very much and keep on keeping on. >> Thank you. Good to talk to you. [Music]