Entertainment is a business of hits, world of hits, and you can do it at a at at at a at a lesser scale to Netflix and succeed very nicely. You can just never be ever be number one or have big growth that the growth of those movie companies subsumed everything else that came along for 70 years. They are being have been subsumed now by huge tech companies that have different business models than they do that they can never compete with. So all those companies have been around for 100 years. They're just going to be smaller enterprises with great with not without great growth prospects, but they'll be okay. Barry, where does this podcast find you? I'm in my New York office. Is that the big sales? Yes, it's the Salecloth Frank Gary building. Yeah, it's a beautiful building. I've done several events there. So, let's bust right into this. I'm I want to get your origin story. I remember being I remember I had a senior my senior year at UCLA. I had a job selling insurance and I wanted to break into media and I had a friend named Tom Nunan and he worked for you like two levels down or he knew you. You were already kind of a master of the universe then. What is this like ancient history we're doing here? Like is this like 1912? When would this be? No, this is like 1987. I think you were at 1987 I was at Fox. Yes. Yeah. So I would just love to get your origin story and how you ended up in as a fairly young man kind of being a captain of media industry like give us give us give us the origin story of Barry Diller. Let's do when I kind of went to work uh since I had no seeming ambition until I walked into the William Morris Agency as a mailboy basically although I never really delivered mail and I ended up reading the file room. Uh and at that time file rooms were this was huge room with big file cabinets and in it was basically the history of the entertainment business. So, I found a way not to deliver mail or do what the other guys were doing, which were trying to be agents, which I never wanted to be. And I basically read the entire file room. And that was the most fortuitous thing cuz I got the entire I mean, William Wars had been in business then for 70 years or something and it represented almost everyone. So, it had all the history. So, I read the life of Elvis Presley. I read the I mean it was just an incredible basing and then I got serendipitously lucky in that they weren't going to throw me out of William Morris because I never wanted to be an agent and they only did these mailboy things in order to turn people into productive uh agents and I was never going to be that and I'd finished kind of the fire room and I think they were getting ready to throw me out and luckily I took the only job that I was offered, which was to be the assistant to what I thought was a middle level a job at ABC uh in Los Angeles in what was called current programming. And the day that I accepted that job, they fired the ZAR of ABC uh and they reached out and they picked my guy. So instead of being the assistant to this West Coast person, I moved to New York to be the assistant to the head of the network. And within six months I was kind of running the program department. So there you go. That was at age 23. There's something that clearly came from your even earlier than that. What influences growing up gave you that type of drive, that type of creativity? Like when you look back on your childhood and how you were raised, is there anything or people that stand out? I think that all of the things that were enormously enormous difficulties for me, insecurities, inadequacies, uh feeling that I had no self, that I didn't deserve to or all sorts of excuses of sexual confusion and stuff, uh and one big secret, which if you have one big secret, uh and it's an overwhelming one, it tends to let all the other risks reduce in size so you who take these giant risks cuz the big risk is just obliviating everything else. So, in a way, not that God knows I wanted it, but it allowed me to take risks everywhere else. My my family never thought that I would actually ever work and they were had resources enough that it didn't really matter. But since they I had no seeming ambition uh up until the age of really 19 and I didn't really want to go to school and I was kind of just hibernating. But once I found actually when I walked into that William Morris agency cuz I'd always been interested in the entertainment business when I walked in and I started reading about that world that just drew me like a like the fiercest magnet and that ignited this I don't know where that ambition was but it was certainly born of not feeling that there was any self or that I that that I deserved any self and therefore that fuel that was just big fuel for me. Off mic I was saying I I wanted to talk more about business because everyone's focused on other parts of the book but you said that you're quoteunquote at secret and I assume that's your sexuality you're talking about. Do you Well, let me ask you this. If you were a 20some executive in today's Hollywood, which is much more accepting of people's sexual orientation, do you not think you'd be as su as successful as you were? God, I don't have a clue. I think uh well, no. I I think I would not have I definitely think that the tools that I developed out of all of these seeming disadvantages absolutely did propel me. Now somebody else today would have different things that propelled them. But for me for sure if I didn't have those I'd probably be a ribbon clerk. So I can't help but wax nostalgic here. So, uh, I was raised by a single immigrant mother and our we didn't see each other much during the week. Um, she was a secretary and but we always made we had a date, a standing date on Tuesday nights. You know what we did? ABC movie of the week and it was a standing thing and my mom would make me loaf. Um, getting emotional just thinking about it and my three favorites. People don't realize about like how great the great a breakthrough in that show and I assume you're involved in all three of these things. One duel Stephen Spielberg's first first thing I remember two in my opinion Billy D. Williams best movie Brian song by far and then the most underrated it was a movie of the week but it turned into a show which I think was one of the most underrated shows of the 70s that I did never I never miss an episode the nightstalker. remember that with Darren McGavin? Are you kidding? I mean I uh first of all those three there's one there's a fourth called that certain summer which was at probably of all the god what did we make I say we probably made 350 individual movies of the week during that 5year 7-year period. Certain summer was my favorite for a lot of reasons. It was about, it was the first uh dramatic depiction of homosexuality on broadcast television. And it was a lovely story about uh uh about two men's relationship and him having to tell one of them having to tell his son about his life. Nightstalker. I I got this book that somebody sent me that I respected and it was about 200 pages long. I read it and I said, "Oh my god, a vampire in Las Vegas. What could be a better idea or a better place for a vampire to go than Las Vegas, which is open 24 hours a day, etc. is the definition of a night city?" And I I I read it literally. I read the 200 pages in 3 hours and ordered up the movie. And right when the when that movie was finished, it was so good that my colleagues at ABC said, "This is a theatrical movie. Let's release this in theaters. We'll make a fortune." And I said, "Are you crazy? This is this is what we do. This is a movie of the week. That's where it's going. That's where it belongs." And of course, it then spawned the series, etc. And Brian Song, I don't know that you can do better. Uh, for sure. I mean, yeah, you picked some good ones. What other things early in your career sort of got you to the next level, if you will? Well, I would say that I mean it was definitely I mean Movie of the Week was again I'm 23 or four and so my 20s were just dominated for 5 years by this and and then at the end of that cuz after we'd made these movies I I I was kind of used to the process to say the least and I thought that uh you know there were books that were made into movies but big sprawling epic novels uh you can't tell that story in two hours really and I thought Tugson has all this time so why not do long long form which we called the novel for television which evolved into the miniseries which we all live with today for sure in streaming and that created like the next bump because that was this out of nowhere huge success. So I had these two seinal uh thrusts really early and I don't know it was that because it was the confluence of other events that landed me at Paramount and the movie business at also a really young age and I just I was I was always the youngest and now I'm always the oldest. Yeah, it's weird. I often say I used to walk into every room be the youngest. Now I walk into every room and I'm the oldest. I was never the same age. Just goes so fast. What So you you're sort of a decathlete in terms of different types of content. You started in TV and then you transition to movies. How is that different or what what skills is it the same skills or did you need to develop different management and different capital allocation skills? Oh, no. It's the it well it's the same tool set I'd say but uh but it's applied to totally different uh organizations though the movie business you know television if you uh didn't get it delivered on 7 at 7:30 on a Tuesday night you know the screen went dark in the movie business if you didn't make a movie nobody knew nobody cared so the rhythms were just so completely different and the industry movie industry at at its height of snobism I don't think it's diverted that much today from what it was then in terms of looking down on almost all other forms though now the world is so I don't know even what the definition of a movie is anymore given the Netflix of life but movie companies in the this is in the ' 70s dominated ated world culture to such an extent and you only did we never made we Paramount made probably fewer movies than most other companies other studios of which there were five dominant ones we made maybe uh 15 to 18 movies a year other people made 25 to 30 so you know that's kind of putting your tent up and taking it down every month or so it's a completely different rhythm them. Movie people peed on people from television. So I had the like the good and the bad of people so discounting saying, "Well, I'd be thrown out soon cuz a television person could never succeed in the exalted movie world." So they kind of left me alone for a couple of years where I figured out how to make the company run the way I was comfortable with. And uh and that was a very very hard time where I certainly failed first cuz I believe almost everything I've ever done you kind of at least in my mind fail first before you succeed. And so it was a completely different process that I had to adapt to. I was using all the the same basically toolkit of in my case which was developing material rather than buying packages with made up you know made to form uh uh directors actors writers etc that were given to studios by agencies I wanted to develop I've always thought was my first thing of developing material so I wanted to develop material that takes a long time to do uh but that process has ever changed for me. So, while you were there, I just want to review this. You decided to go back to TV and essentially started the Fox Television Network where Married with Children and The Simpsons were sort of the pillars there. Talk did you go back to TV and tell us a little bit about those two shows because I someone told me The Simpsons is the most profitable TV show in history. That is true. Um well back into TV when I left Paramount to go to Fox I had tried to start a a fourth network. There were at that time three networks which got 100% of the viewing. There wasn't cable. I mean cable was just was getting a better signal. Uh and so uh three networks dominated everything. And I thought had thought over the years that well they started out with different personalities. By the 80s they all talked, looked and acted alike. And I thought, well, that's interesting. There's room for I mean maybe room for an alternative to that. So when I got to Fox and that confluence again serendipitous Events was able to get a bunch of television stations that we could buy and start this fourth network. And in the beginning, you know, we didn't find find our vein until I got a script called Not the Cosby's. And now Not the Cosby's means Bill Cosby show is number one on television. Had been for many years. And so when I saw the title not the Cosbys I was oh that's like a interesting and uh it was an anti-establishment family which we later called uh married with children and that we I knew we'd struck the vein and shortly thereafter uh we had had a show called Tracy Alman and in it were these interstitials that Matt Grrying did with his character the Simpsons and Jim Brooks great director who terms of endearment etc etc said who produced Tracy Alman show said I think we can make this into a series and uh I I said yes absolutely now at that time because animation took 6 months and whatever we had to commit to 13 episodes without making quote pilot etc. So, it was a big commitment. We did it and made the 13 episodes and we hadn't scheduled it yet. And the first episode came back again like six, eight months later and we had this viewing and actually Jim Brooks's little bungalow on the Fox lot and I brought the sales department and some other like 12 people and it was one of those screenings where Jim Brooks and I are the only people laughing and when you're laughing at material that you've already seen before, you're really doing it to try and get other people to laugh. So it's like overperformance and there Jim and I are hawking it up stonefaced every other person in the room. We walk out with my group out of the bungalow back up to our offices and these guys said well can't air that I mean a cartoon. Uh, and they just all thought, well, and I thought as Jim did, this is great. Of course, we scheduled it from the first hour, the first day. It was a smash hit. It's still going now, I don't know, well, certainly decades, 30 years later. But because of syndication and because of streaming and because of all this, now it's owned by Disney. There's no question that as a single entertainment product, it is the most profitable in history. We'll be right back after a quick break. Support for the show comes from Select quote. I'm sure you've heard people say the phrase, "You can't take it with you." And what that phrase means is that when you pass, all your worldly assets won't matter to you. And that's a nice sentiment, but your worldly assets will definitely matter to your loved ones. Should something happen to you tomorrow, you can make sure your assets are safe and secure for your legacy and your family's future. Select Quote says they can help. Select Quote is one of America's leading insurance brokers with nearly 40 years of experience, helping over 2 million customers find over $700 billion in coverage since 1985. Select Quote's licensed insurance agents work for you to tailor a life insurance policy for your individual needs in as little as 15 minutes. And Select partners with carriers that provide policies for a variety of health conditions. Or if you don't have any major health issues, they work with carriers that get you sameday coverage with no medical exam required. Get the right life insurance for you for less at selectquote.com/propg. Go to selectquote.com/propg today to get started. That's selectquote.com/propg. Support for the show comes from SoFi small business lending. You're a small business owner. You need capital to find new opportunities and grow. And you can do that with help from SoFi. You might know SoFi for student loans and high interest savings. But now they help small businesses, too. No more chasing bankers or wasting time in a branch. SoFi small business marketplace is your new go-to fast and digital solution. In one single simple search, SoFi matches you with vetted providers for your business in just minutes. You can discover options that meet your specific needs. And if you find a quote that works for you, you may receive funds as soon as the same day you're approved. Say it's working capital you need or a line of credit or an SBA loan or equipment financing. SoFi's marketplace can help you find all of the above. It's already helped thousands of small businesses find the funding they need. SoFi also offers business owners curated tools, vetted business bank accounts, business credit card recommendations, and a ton of resources to help you scale your business like a boss. SoFi, now helping you get your business right. Visit sofi.com/propchod and see your options in minutes. Support for the show comes from TED Next. Let's be honest, we're not just busy. We're experiencing the greatest acceleration of change in human history. The pace of technology has left regulation, culture, and even our own biology in the dust. And somehow, we're supposed to figure out who we want to be. That's what TED Next is built for, to provide a toolkit for navigating a world where yesterday's playbook is already obsolete. It's an invitation to join a community of visionaries, emerging leaders, innovators, culture shapers, and change agents. and they all want to take the next step on their life's journey together. If you want to be part of something meaningful and energizing, TED is for you. I've spoken to TED myself. After working my ass off for 30 years, I was an overnight success after speaking to Ted. I like the community and I really found it very rewarding. Register for TED Next November 9th through 11th in Atlanta. It's a rare convergence where career advancement meets personal reinvention, both non-negotiable for tomorrow's leaders. And right now, TED is offering our listeners a special rate at ted.comscott. Again, that's teed.comscott. [Music] So, you then were able to pivot or evolve into uh online or e-commerce. What was the motivation there and what kind of what inspired you to get involved in sort of the digital world? What happened was after I left Fox, I wanted to be independent. I wanted my own store. I wanted I'd always worked for companies. I was the definition of a corporatist. And I was 49 years old. And I thought, well, if I don't strike out, so to speak, for independence, I never will. And I didn't like that idea that I never would. And that kind of forced me out of Fox. And then I and I had no clue what I wanted to do. All I wanted to do was not what I'd done before. I didn't want to run movie companies anymore. I'd run two. Uh and a couple of people asked me if I would do that. And I said no. And I didn't want to I didn't want to be in the I certainly didn't want to be in the production business. That was kind of boring. And but I had no I all I did is I created a vacuum. I like said, "Okay, I'm going to go drive across the country and wait for something." And again, serendipity, my wife, uh, who's in the fashion business, called me and said, "You have to come go see this QVC, this home shopping channel, cuz I'm thinking of going on it to offer my design clothes." And she said, "Just just interesting. Just go see it." So, I wasn't doing anything. So I went to Westchester, Pennsylvania and I got again, you know, I had this probably single epiphany which is I saw screens being used for something other than to tell stories. Now I knew God knows screens tell stories, but I didn't know anything else. I didn't know a screen could be interactive. And there I am at QVC and I'm watching telephones and televisions and computers being used in this primitive convergence. And it struck me. I mean it just like banged at me of wow. Now I didn't s this is 1993 two years before the internet really started being used by common folk and I thought wow but I didn't think what was going to happen. I just knew it was going to change things and I was fascinated with it. And then again I've used this weird serendipity but it is the elite motive of my life. Uh, a couple of months later, I was offered to buy QVC and I did it. And so, by the time the internet came along from this primitive convergence, now two years later, I had kind of in my fingertips an understanding of that world. And so when when that happened, we were able to start all these businesses, the internet business, Expedia and Match and all these things that came along cuz I was kind of present at the creation of this radical transformation uh uh uh into into the digital age. I I didn't plan it. I never actually planned anything. Uh, and but once I saw it, I was just again drawn like a magnet to it and and that's what got it started and then it just went from there. You have a reputation for um mentoring and developing or maturing a lot of pretty impressive executives ranging from Strauss Zelnik to Dar Kashai at at Uber, Don Steel. Um, uh, one of my investors, Tim Armstrong, uh, speaks very highly of you. Curious, what do you, when you see someone, what attributes in them or signals tell you this person is worth making an investment in and this person could could play a really important role. What What do you spot in people and think this person's a comer? spark, energy, edge, uh being alive to the moment, and that's all I need. I don't I don't I don't like uh or I shouldn't say I education uh unless they're, you know, tool sets you need to do a specific task. But education doesn't impress me. Certainly MBAs don't impress me. I think they're overeducated or narrowly overeducated. Uh, and I just look for somebody who's got some spark and edge and I just has has to have a live mind and be open to possibilities and be curious. If I see that, that's enough to start. And every one of the people you mentioned, uh, I'm not sure everyone, but almost everyone that's come into my life in that way usually comes in at the junior of levels. Uh, and then and you see that little spark or whatever it is. And, uh, I don't like I think mentoring is a it's gotten too official. It's like choose your mentor or whatever all that stuff. I I think it's a little high flown, but I think if you get people at the earliest age and they get into your environment and you can bash around with them in different roles that they could play and then they grow up within the organization. They just get big dosages of everything and some it takes and some it doesn't. I'm curious what you think if when you look at the media world right now. Are there any kind of specific trends that pop out to you and any thoughts on say you're coming out and you want to be the next Barry Diller? Where do you think the puck is headed? Well, I have no clue where it's headed really. I mean I I can a couple of things maybe. I mean if I was starting today I would look for things that can't be disintermediated because I think that the the the changes that are a foot are going to things have been as you know internet disintermediate lots of stuff AI is going to put that to GeForce power. Uh so if I were again mine wasn't my own exper all I got is my own experience. I was drawn to stuff. I didn't sus out oh entertainment business looks like it has this or that quality about it. I was just fascinated by it. I think you think what fascinates you? What are you interested? What are you curious about? And then just get on the broad path of it somehow. Just start however you whatever door you have to bash through, whatever you have to do. Uh just get on the main path of whatever intrigues you and it will take you or not, but it'll it'll take you where where you're supposed to go. As against the dopes, particularly entertainment business, who say I want to run a studio. Anyone who says that to me, I would throw out of my office. I mean, that's like such an idiot goal, I think. Look, if you want to be a doctor, uh, yeah, you got to have a goal. You got to get a degree or other things. But, uh, if if those aren't necessary, then goal early age goal stuff is really stupid. You should only be governed by what you're curious about and get in the lane. In terms of the media ecosystem right now, you you've actually I think some of the stuff I've read you've called for antitrust. Do you think the ecosystem is too concentrated right now? The lawsuits against Google and and uh Alphabet. Yeah. Um I don't know how practical it is. Look, I think with Google the thing is Google was and is currently but by my little currently is on the head of a little pin because that's changing. Google was an absolute monopoly. No question. You lived as a surf in their land if you had anything internet or traffic oriented that you needed for your services or products. A total monopoly. I think that's just about to change now. Maybe their Gemini will take over search just like their Google took over search 20 years ago. I doubt it. I don't think the chances are great. So, it seems awfully late. Maybe you need most antitrust stuff does come late of this kind. I don't know if that how what sense that makes. And as for separating uh Instagram or WhatsApp and trying to get them, I mean it's also I I think the basis of that doesn't make any sense. I don't think that they are anti-competitive. Uh I at the heart of the meta lawsuit doesn't make any total sense to me. Okay, all of that I think that what is happening on the eve of today in the next year or two is there's going to be so much diversity in AI empowered stuff that I think these tech monopolies except for Apple which is not a monopoly but is the greatest business as you know the iPhone business and its walled circle uh you can't I don't know how you do better but I don't think these companies are going to I these companies probably because they're so big and so profitable that offshoots of them look Google has YouTube uh which is a giant people don't realize how powerful YouTube is YouTube is probably going to be worth more than Google search in a in a while cuz I don't see that getting disintermediated. So anyway, I'm longwinded about this. I don't think that uh the breakup I think it's the breakup of these things is is is so late in the game that they're going to get uh competed with voseiferously by everything else in uh coming from AI. You mentioned YouTube, which is a good segue into the streaming wars. When you look at Netflix and all the other players, I think if it was Netflix and the Seven Dwarves, any predictions or any feel for how that might shake out? Five years ago, I said Netflix won. Everybody get over it. Please don't try. Don't overinvest to try and become or compete against Netflix. You cannot do it. They lead in every respect. Uh not only the movie business, but certainly the television business. in every respect. They are dominant. They set the rules and everybody else abides by those rules. Doesn't mean that there aren't other companies that can be successful with their streaming if they scale it down. uh their what their cost going into it and they make good programming because in the end entertainment is a business of hits world of hits and you can do it at a at at at a at a lesser scale than Netflix and succeed very nicely. You can just never be ever be number one or have big growth that the growth of those movie companies subsumed everything else that came along for 70 years. They are being have been subsumed now by huge tech companies that have different business models than they do that they can never compete with. So all those companies have been around for 100 years. They're just going to be smaller enterprises with great with not without great growth prospects but they'll be okay. There's a lot of you see all these Tik Toks about people saying that, you know, Hollywood is understood, especially production. The production is way down in LA and that everyone's asking for tax credits to make it more competitive. And I think Netflix now spends more than half of its content budget overseas. Do you think that Hollywood is to um the entertainment industry what Detroit was to the automotive industry? Is is this cyclical or structural? Hollywood hedge money is gone forever again. Hollywood now is dominated by Netflix tech company, Amazon, a tech company with completely different business model than anybody in the entertainment business could have ever conceived of, which is we don't care if you watch this stuff really or that if it's, you know, we don't need really hits, we need you to join Prime and we're going to give you this stuff in the front of the store. the you know the the in order to get you in the store of prime how do you compete with that it's not possible and then there's of course Apple and its efforts in in programming so uh tech are now the overlords Hollywood is I'm not saying it's culturally irrelevant cuz a lot of stuff gets created there or is organized there whether it's shot there or shot someplace else is somewhat irrelevant though I think it's very relevant to the craft all of whom live in LA and I think LA County LA city California state has been so friaking dumb in not offering the kinds of production below the line incentives that every other state and country has offered that has pulled the centrality of just making this stuff away from the place that's got all the craft expertise. Kind of crazy, but there it is. Certainly tariffs aren't going to help that. That's brainless. Um, so it's just a completely different system now than what it was for, you know, dominated again for close to a hundred years by just a handful of companies that subsumed almost everything that came along technically until Netflix busted the Apple. We'll be right back. Support for the show comes from the podcast The World as You'll Know It, hosted by science journalist and Yale professor Carl Zimmer, author of Life's Edge and Airborne. The World As You Know It is a podcast about the forces shaping the future. This season, Zimmer speaks to some of the most respected scientists in the field of longevity research about what old age could look like in the future. Humans are already living longer than ever thanks to advances like vaccines, antibiotics, and clean water. And with the incredible progress being made in treating deadly conditions, including heart disease and cancer, mortality rates for each have dropped by double digits. Now, science is tackling a new challenge, curing aging itself. Will new breakthroughs add even more years to our lives? Can older brains be rewired to function like younger ones? And which so-called biohacks actually work? Join Carl Zimmer as he investigates what current science is claiming about longevity and gets to the bottom of what's unbelievable and what's actually possible. You can find the world as you'll know it, the future of aging wherever you get your podcast or you can listen at aventine.org/mpodcast. That's avant t i ne.org/mpodcast. Support for the show comes from Mercury, the banking product that feels extraordinary to use. When you're a startup founder getting your business off the ground, the last thing you want to be doing is toggling between a dozen apps and clunky banking services that can barely keep up with your needs. Enter Mercury. Mercury is the banking product made by entrepreneurs for entrepreneurs. What makes it so special? Well, Mercury isn't technically a bank. They provide banking services through partner banks and are able to focus on delivering well-designed software that helps navigate some of the TDM for you. Because when your finances are simple, your mind is free to focus on the real work of growing your business. With Mercury, you get the tools you need to operate at your best, scale your business, and keep your spend under control. Visit mercury.com to join over 200,000 entrepreneurs who use Mercury to do more for their business. Mercury, banking that does more. Mercury is a financial technology company, not a bank. Banking services provided by Choice Financial Group, column NA, and Evolved Bank and Trust members FDIC. The IO card is issued by Patriot Bank, member FDIC, pursuant to a license from Mastercard. We're back with more from Fairy Diller. So just I want to in our remaining time here I want to switch to stuff that's more personal. You've had what I would argue from at least an exterior perspective is a very successful partnership with your wife. You guys have been together married for two and a half decades but together for five decades. Is that right? Except for an interregnum period when I was sent off to the wilderness. Uh uh which lasted almost about 10 years. But yes, we are. It's almost 50 years. Your two kids, I'm friends or friendly with Alex. My sense is you have a really good relationship with them. What What advice would you have for husbands and for dads around fostering and cultivating strong relationships with your partner and your kids? I don't know. I I guess be engaged or whatever. I I don't I don't I I'm not really very good at advice. I think uh I I just think again if you're lucky enough that and luck is a part of it I don't know of course there's other stuff in there but luck is a real part of uh what is the result of a child that gets to be let's see a semi adult in their teens or post- teens or 20s whatever in their kind of development period and you know if they come out of that as responsible whatever your definition of responsible is and you're engaged with them. I I it's really not me. You know what? As I think about it, it's not me. It's Dion, my wife. I don't know. I've never seen anyone else's relationship with their children, which is like that. It is It's not the old Lane May, Mike Nichols thing of, you know, of guilt and calling quote your mother. This family talks to each other every day. and multiple times a day. And none of it is effortful. It's effortless. And that's just the the children and and the grandchildren much younger obviously, but the children are there. Everybody's life is kind of intertwined. There's no, you know, I'm I'm marvel people say, "Well, I haven't talked to my mother or father in two weeks or I call them every Thursday or whatever, something like that formalized." Could not be further than the truth. I just think I don't got no advice here. I just think if you're lucky enough to have that kind of easy is not the word for it, but natural engagement and infoldment that uh when things happen. So you're 83. You've checked a lot of boxes. Like what boxes are left for you? Like do you have when you think about your purpose and what's left for you and what you really what you want to accomplish that you haven't accomplished? What what what is that or those things? I don't think it's accomplishment. I I never thought about accomplishments in that sense. I I think it's am I still curious? Uh I have I'm still responsible for two public companies, probably three actually now. uh and as long as I'm curious about them uh then I will have something to contribute and that kind of goes on just like a clock that doesn't stop or Energizer bunny that you can't turn off. I mean that's just the n that's just nature. But what I do think about is and I don't think of I hate that word legacy anyway. I think it's stupid, but uh what I want to do, I like public art and uh public places, and I've been lucky enough to be involved in a few of those. And I want to do as many more of those as I can because I I think there are very few people who have the resources and the will or desire to do that. And since I got that, then I think it'd be criminal for me not to spend uh those resources uh and my own juice to create more public places and public art cuz I marvel at what has been created by others and and lives for hundreds of years. and you come up on it and you say, "How the hell how the hell did they decide to do Central Park?" You know, how did they how did they whatever it is, any place that there is anything that is of a a public institution. Barry Diller is a businessman known for his influential roles in media and entertainment. He's the chairman and senior executive of IA. His new book, Who Knew, is out now. He joins us from his office in Manhattan. Barry, I I I've only had one dinner with you, but I think everybody everybody just wants to be Barry Diller. You just have a certain Good luck to you. Yeah, whatever. Well, you just have a certain fearlessness about you that I think we're all drawn to both professionally and personally. Really appreciate uh you coming on the show. Uh I'm glad I did. I've been it's been actually enjoyable in these situations, which I never think are, but anyway. All right. Thank you. Bye. [Music] [Music]