And when I look at the Trump administration, I see a massive attempt to return us to the life of doggy dog. Uh the life of nasty, brutish, and short, the life where gangsters have maximum freedom to do what they want to do. Uh and that is the evisceration of all the values of civilization that conservatism is supposed to transmit and preserve. And I think the raw lust for power that Donald Trump embodies has not only eviscerated conservatism, it's inviscerated Christianity. Christianity is a system designed around the meek. Uh service to the poor. Jesus never uh embraced worldly power. David, where does this podcast find you? I am actually at home in Washington DC. In DC. Well, let's uh as I said off mic, I'm a big fan and it took us a while to get you on the pod, but really appreciate you being here. So, let's bust right into it. Um, you've been a lifelong conservative. Uh, is there a version of conservatism left that you still recognize or believe in? Like where it it feels Democrats at least have a common enemy? Where do where do true conservatives go right now for leadership or some sort of touchstone? Yeah, I I became a conservative in my 20s after being a police reporter in Chicago. And the two heroes for me were Edmund Burke who was an Irish conservative statesman and philosopher uh who believed that in epistemological modesty the idea is the world is really complicated and when we do change we should do it constantly but incrementally and my other hero was Alexander Hamilton who was a Puerto Rican hiphop artist from upper Manhattan now. Uh and so Alexander Hamilton believed that progressives believe in government to enhance equality and libertarians believe in limited government to enhance freedom. Hamiltonianism believes in limited but energetic government to enhance social mobility. And so those are the two north stars for me. Uh and of course over the course of the Trump administration, I've come to believe that whatever conservativism is, it's not what Trump is producing. He's producing reactionary politics, something completely different. And so I went back to those books that I used to read from Edmund Burke and people like Isaiah Berlin and a guy named Michael Oakshot and I loved them all over again. I think the essential conservative truths are still very profound. Uh but they are nothing like what is called conservatism today. There is nothing like Fox News. Uh and I go back to one moment in my formation where now in retrospect it looks like there was a crucial fork in the road. I came out of the year of Chicago and I read Burke and Adam Smith and these books and I worked at National Review, the Wall Street Journal editorial page, the Weekly Standard and we believed in promulgating conservative ideas. At the same time I graduated from Chicago, there were a couple people graduating from Dartmouth who had worked at the Dartmouth Review and people may recognize Laura Ingram, Desha Suza. They were in this group and I've come to see they were not pro-conservative. They were anti-left. uh they were in elite institutions but they hated the progressive lean of those institutions and so they were sort of the rebel bad boys. The defining feature of the Dartmouth review was in 1986 some progressive students on Dartmouth's campus erected a a shanty town to protest aparthide and in the middle of the night the editors of Dartmouth about a dozen of them descended on the shanty town and took sledgehammers to them and it was attempt to dismantle the left really and to me it was like gestapo tactics and I was shocked and appalled because aparthide really is worth protesting but I've come to see that difference between being pro-conervative which I would say John McCain was, Mitt Romney was, George W. Bush was, and anti-left, which is what Lauren Grim is, which is what Pexith is, what is what Vivic Ramaswami is. That to me is a crucial difference. You had a recent essay in the Atlantic titled I should have seen this coming, and you write about how people were once drawn to conservatism by a set of values, but now it's about dominance and rage. It feels as if the right has conflated some perverted form or sense of masculinity with coarseness and cruelty. How did that come about from a group of people that has typically been more aligned with I don't want to say Christian values but spir religious values that are meant to be more charitable than quite frankly these heathen hippies from the left. Like how did it get so mean? Uh yeah, resentment, the sense of siege mentality. Uh and then there's something animistic deep in human nature. And so when humans first evolved, we were in a war of a struggle of all against all. Uh life was nasty, brutish and short. And then over the course of the centuries, we built civilization. Uh and that civilization consisted of constitutions to restrain power. It consisted of international systems to try to pre promote peace. But it also cons uh consisted of humanistic values, literature uh and art and poetry to soften human nature. It consisted of moral philosophies either theological or secular to answer the question, what is life for? And when I look at the Trump administration, I see a massive attempt to return us to the life of doggy dog. Uh the life of nasty, brutish, and short, the life where gangsters have maximum freedom to do what they want to do. Uh, and that is the evisceration of all the values of civilization that conservatism is supposed to transmit and preserve. And I think the raw lust for power that Donald Trump embodies has not only eviscerated conservatism, it's inviscerated Christianity. Christianity is a system designed around the meek. Uh, service to the poor. Jesus never uh, embraced worldly power. Donald Trump is completely about worldly power. It's about domination. And so it's been interesting to me to watch a political leader eviscerate the two philosophies that he claims to stand for, both conservatism and Christianity. Uh, and such as the acidic power of nihilism. You summarized I remember after January 20th, I was I think a lot of us on the left just felt sort of flumxed and flatfooted. We did not even how to describe or even process what we were feeling. And you summarized it uh perfectly. You said that you um uh you felt moral shame that to watch the loss of your nation's honor is embarrassing and painful. What do you what do you think we lost that day? Yeah. You know, I quoted in that Atlantic essay the first sentence of one of Charles Dar uh Charles de Gaulle's memoirs and he says, "I've always had a certain idea about France and I've always had a certain idea about America that we're a flawed nation that's fundamentally a force for good. Uh we, you know, Lincoln tried to uphold the dignity of man. FDR tried to defeat fascism. Ronald Reagan tried to defeat communism. Uh George W. Bush for all his flaws created PEPAR to save 25 million lives in Africa who might have otherwise died of HIV. And so we made our mistakes like Vietnam and Iraq. But they were mistakes of stupidity, of arrogance, of naive day, but they were not out of evil intention. And when I look at Donald Trump, evil intention is part of the plan. And so when I saw him attack Zilinski and with JD Vance in that oval office, I I had experienced an a blow to my patriots as an an emotion that I hadn't really felt about America before. And then on Liberation Day when the tariffs were announced, I felt it again mixed with a a horror of incompetence. And so these are all been these are new experiences, new and shocking experiences. Yeah. is is I think a lot of moderates try and find their political home base. I think of you I think I would have been a Rockefeller Republican if I'd been a little bit older. There's a lot of things about conservatism I'm really drawn to. And I wonder as someone who's you know I think a lot of progressives are like we think okay we get we Democrats get it wrong a lot. We take things too far. Identity politics I think is out of control. But the way you describe Americans I would describe Democrats right now. Their heart's in the right place. They're they but we just often take things too far. Uh we led 250,000 people across the border in December of 23rd inspiring an overreaction where we start basic we start basically rounding up people with the wrong tattoos. We let DEI apparatus on campus go so far that it probably becomes unconsciously accidentally racist itself and we inspire an overreaction. Do you think there's any truth to the notion that we on the left quite frankly have a tendency to stick out stick out our chin and just take things too far and quite frankly create space for an overreaction? Is some of this our fault? Oh absolutely. you know, um I would say one flaw and now where I position myself, I I read one of my heroes is Isaiah Berlin, the British philosopher, and he said, "I'm happy to be on the rightward edge of the leftward tendency." And that's where I find myself these days, on the rightward edge of the leftward tendency. I associate more with the with moderate or to the Democrats, I guess, but I am the conservative version of that. And when I look at the progressive world, I think it was just a horrible mistake to buy into an ideology that defines all human relationships into oppressor oppressed groups. Uh it was a horrible mistake to think that a person's ideas, values, and worldviews are determined by their racial or gender identities. But the ultimate sin for me that progressives committed over the last 70 years is they created worlds in the universities and in the media and the cultural institutions and the nonprofits where there was no room for voices that were working-class voices and there was no room for conservative voices. And so when I joined uh journalism as a police reporter, I worked around a lot of high school grads. Journalism had a strong working-class component in those days. And when I went to college, there was mostly progressives, but there were a lot of conservatives around. Over the ensuing 40 years, that's been purged. And as far as I know, if you look at the editorial staff of the major mainstream media organizations, there's not a single Trump supporter in an editorial position, as far as I know. And so, if you tell half the country that your voices are not worth hearing, they're going to flip the table. And worse, if you create a meritocratic system where the children of the rich have advantages in getting to Ivy League schools over the children of the poor, and that goes on generation after generation, they're going to flip the table. And one of the things that disturbs me most about American life is how we've developed a cast system. So, college educated people uh live 15 years longer than high school educated people. High school educated people are five times more likely to die of opioid addiction, five times more likely to have kids out of wedlock, 2.4 24 times more likely to say um they have no friends and so we've created this class divide on the basis of education and it was mostly progressives who are in charge of our educational institutions. So that fixing that problem is one of the things I think progressives have to have to work on. Yeah, I think a lot about this and the way I describe what you just described as this magic drug that does all the wonderful things you're talking about if you take it and yet we as progressives who run these institutions have decided to hoard this drug through artificial scarcity that America's become a rejectionist kind of LVMH exclusionary culture that once I have a house I get very concerned with traffic and show up and make sure no one else can build a house because the incentive is to see the value of my house go up once I have a college degree I kind of enjoy hearing that the admissions rate has gone from 76% to 9% which is my alma moater or UCLA. Do you think that there's this virus that infects Democrats and Republicans where we've decided once you get there, pull up the bridge behind you that were more LVM than what was originally a vision for America? Yeah. I I mean I would say the the one little activity that personifies what you just said is my daughter did okay in her SAT scores and she started getting brochures from colleges and she got big expensive glossy brochures from schools like Harvard. There is literally no student in my zip code who can get into Harvard who doesn't know about Harvard. And so why did they send these bro fancy brochures? In order to induce students to apply so they can reject them. Uh and so they that way they can say we're rejecting 96% of the kids who are applying to our school. And so that's a bit of the cynicism of creating not only creating scarcity but bragging that you've become a rejection academy rejecting 96% of the kids who apply. And so that to me is a bit of the segmentation. And then recruiters from the banks and the consulting groups they recruit at very few schools. Somebody did a study of looking at who works at in media, entertainment, corporations, law, science, and 54% in these various diverse fields went to the same 32 elite colleges. And so we have created a segregation system based on SAT scores and grades uh that divide society at a very early age. And a lot of kids um know by age eight or nine because they're tested often whether the system thinks they're dumb or smart. And the dumb ones are alienated uh and they think the system is rigged against it which is accurate. Uh I had an interesting call with a friend of mine who lives in Ohio who's u an electrician and he he said you know David I I saw you saying nice things about institutions that you really been were through some really wonderful institutions that made you a better person and I would include my summer camp my high school my college he said I've never felt that way about institutions that was such a novel thought for me cuz every institution I've been a part of is like a jack boot in my face and that's just a very different attitude than those of us who were fortunate enough to know to do reasonably well in these elite institutions. We'll be right back after a quick break. Support for PUFG comes from Vanta. Starting a company is incredibly gratifying, but can also be one of the hardest things you'll ever do. And one of the most challenging parts of it is making sure that you're meeting all the security compliance standards you need to meet. Vanta makes the whole process easier. Fant is a trust management platform that helps businesses automate security and compliance, enabling them to demonstrate strong security practices and scale. That means that a whole bunch of tasks that used to be expensive, time-conuming, and complex can now be automated and streamlined. Simply put, your company can't grow if it can't prove that it's meeting security standards including SOCK 2, ISO 2701, and HIPPA. Vanta can get you audit ready in weeks instead of months, saving you up to 85% of associated costs. And Vantis scales with your business, helping you continuously monitor compliance, unify risk management, and streamline security reviews all in one place. Starting a business is hard. Let Vanta make the process a little bit easier. Go to vanta.com/propg to meet with a Vanta expert about your business needs. That's [Music] vanta.com/propg. You're a thoughtful guy. I want to I want to move to solutions. Do you think it's I mean one idea I just spoke with um David Axelrod the University of Chicago. You went to you you're a Chicago gradu I'm a Chicago guy. Yeah. Okay. In the middle of the tour I just did that college week college tour with my son and they keep talking in this very like warm tones. If we look at the full applicant and then along the way a parent and of course it's only the parents asking questions. Um, but I think they should pass a law that no parent is is ever allowed to ask a question in these tours. Anyways, someone makes the mistake of asking the admissions rate and the guy, this lovely high EQ guy goes, "It's 4%." So, there's 75 people on this tour, 25 kids, 50 parents. So, one of them is getting in and we're all marching around the campus and I say to my son, I said, "Let's let's leave the tour. I I just don't want to get your hopes up here. You're not getting into the University of Chicago with a 4% admissions rate. You're just not." And I wonder if some of these schools should lose their taxfree status that if you have if you have an endowment over a billion dollars, you're not growing your freshman class faster than population. You're no longer a public servant. You're a hedge fund with classes. What you're a thoughtful guy. You've written on the topic. What do you think we do to try and break the cast system that has become higher education? You know, first on those college tours, I've never felt more invisible in my life than when I'm a parent on one of those college tours cuz you realize you don't matter at all. But I would say these schools, and I piss on them all the time, they're still fantastic places. If you can get in, it's amazing. If you can get in, they're they're amazing places of deep learning. And what I'm hoping is the universities will do a couple things. First, expand as you suggest to allow more access. Second, do genuine intellectual diversity on campus. Uh, and so since I'm more conservative than the campus norm, I now talk politics, something I would never have done in the classroom. I said, "Look, I'm a conservative. I just want to explain to you what it feels like, why I became a conservative." So, you have some access. You know what a conservative looks like. Uh, and so that's strange to a lot of students. The third and most important thing is we need to redefine our definition of ability. Our whole system is based on a definition of ability, which is the ability to suck up to teachers between the ages of 15 and 18 and do well on standardized tests. That is not what genuine ability is. It doesn't allow for curiosity. It doesn't allow for determination, for drive, for social skills. And if we had a wider definition of ability that rich parents couldn't game as well to include those more humanistic traits, then it's more widely dispersed across populations. Uh, and we would have a more democratic student body because we'd measure the things that really matter that don't require you to go to a private school to get all the training. Uh and so to me the history of the meritocracy is the history of different definitions of ability. Uh and we used to it used to be if you were in a military society it was military courage. Then in the 19th century it was social breeding. Did you come over from the Mayflower? But in the 1930s to 1950s the whole system switched over to IQ. And that's just an incredibly narrow definition of ability. So the only way to really diversify and democratize the system is to redefine what ability is, what we're going to measure, how what criteria we're going to use to accept or reject kids. And we'll understand that the distinction between Princeton and I don't know Penn State. These are ridiculous distinctions. Uh Williams and Amherst, you know, these are ridiculous. But we've built this hierarchy of status uh which uh perverts and distorts all of society. Do you think though I wonder if the argument over the criteria for who gets in whether it's going from more analytical to more qualitative that it's the wrong argument that it shouldn't be who gets in the real AR that's a misdirect from the key argument and that is how many and that is DEI isn't an issue. DEI has caused a lot of problems on campus. I I actually am I don't call it conservative here, but I think it the DI apparatus on campus should be disassembled. You know, 60% of Harvard's freshman class identifies as non-white. So, what is the 140 person DEI apparatus actually doing? So, but at the same time, I think all of that is a misdirect from what we should be talking about and that is how many get in. So junior colleges don't have a DEI problem because you just show up, you pay the fee, you get in and there's not all this manufactured stress over who gets in and then an argument over like who deserves advantage. And you know my premise has always been at the age of 18, I don't know about you, I was really I was remarkably unremarkable and I don't believe any organization test or individual can be the arbiter of who's going to be a success at 18. Some you know I think a lot about men. our our prefrontal cortex just doesn't fully develop till 25. And I didn't get my act together until I was in graduate school. And fortunately, Berkeley let me into graduate school at a 2.27 undergraduate GPA. And so these institutions are amazing, but why would they sequester uh this drug? Anyways, I'm sorry, a bit of a speech there. I'm curious what you think about the idea of mandatory national service. I couldn't be more enthusiastic about it. uh in part because um it would get kids from Berkeley to meet kids from Birmingham, Alabama. Uh and so and then it would give students a sense of uh what this country is like, what different kinds of people there are in it, but it would also give them a sense that life is really about offering. What are you offering? Uh, and you know, one of my favorite sayings about vocations, the famous one from the novelist Frederick Wikner, you find your calling where your deep gladness meets the world's deep need. Uh, and how do you find the world's deep need? You're probably not going to find it at the office in McKenzie or on the campus of some fancy university. You have to go out to where the problems are. I'm also a fan of Victor Frankle, um, whose book Man Search for Meaning everybody should read. uh and he was an Austrian psychiatrist who was put in a Nazi concentration camp and he realized the wrong question to ask about your life is what do I want from life? The right question to ask is what is life asking of me? What problems are in front of me that that I am uniquely qualified to take part in in addressing and so to national service would give kids a a chance to go out where the problems are and they'll be moved by the injustice of homelessness. So they'll be moved by uh struggles in rural America. They'll be r moved by urban poverty. And it's tapping into that calling will arouse tremendous energy levels. I just think it's become tremendously hard to be in your 20s these days. In part because we don't give students enough uh avenues to find their purpose in life. And you can only do that by trying out a bunch of stuff in your 20s and figure out which touches your soul. I'm sort of like you. I graduated maybe halfway in my public high school class. Uh I went to Chicago because in those days Chicago was accepting 74%. And I just to underline something you said I fervently agree with you that you can't predict how a person's going to do by by anything they do at age 18. They have not been formed. Uh and the key to success in life is not how smart you were at 18 but whether you're capable of keep growing and learning all the days of your life. and I taught off and on at Yale for 20 years. Um, and it's a wonderful place. I I think it's a fantastic place. But I noticed this phenomenon with some of my students. They were electric at 21. But by the time I would have coffee with them 10 years after graduation, some light had gone out. They'd fallen into some career rut. They were not asking the big questions anymore. And so to me, I don't want to know whether you're shiny at 18. And I want to know are you capable of perpetual growth until you're 100? And that that is a skill that you can't measure at 18. Talk about one. Do you believe do you buy into this thesis that the idolatry of money has kind of overwhelmed and crowded out character, service, patriotism? What where do you stand on the thesis that it's the idolatry of money that has really really hurt America? Yeah, I would say it's um that's a rhythm in American life where money becomes the dominant ethos. And you would say the 1880s, the 1890s, uh we were incredibly um materialistic society. But what you need is a moral system that stands against capitalism. So you live in the in the contest and the tension between c capitalism say and Catholicism or capitalism and Judaism or frankly capitalism and progressivism. These are all systems or capitalism and environmentalism. These are all systems that push against some of the worst flaws of capitalism uh and uh give you a a moral basis to make your decision, a sense of right and wrong, not just richer or poorer. And so I think creative people live in the tension between those two things. And I think what we've seen is the collapse of all rival systems. One one of my favorite sayings from psychology is from a guy named John Bulby who does attachment research. He says, "All of life is a series of daring explorations from a secure base. We need that secure base. And that secure base fundamentally is about your relationship with your parents, having secure attachments. But it's also about uh having a secure home, a hometown, a safe neighborhood. Uh but it's also about a moral order. The sense that you live within a coherent moral order and you can make the decisions of your life based on this." There was a historian named George Marsden who wrote once that what gave Martin Luther King's rhetoric such power was his sense that there was a moral order woven into the fabric of universe that segregation was not just wrong. Sometimes segregation was always wrong. Slavery is always wrong under all circumstances. And so that you that gives you a sense of security if you have a sense that yes that right and wrong are permanent. And we took that away. We privatized morality. We told people it's up to you to come up with your own values. And if your name is Aristotle or Nietze, maybe you can do this. Most of us can't come up with our own values. And we're left in sort of a formless world that gives no security. Way back in 1955, a great columnist named Walter Litman wrote a book in which he wrote that if what is right and wrong is just what each individual invents based on his or her feelings, we have left the bounds of civilization. And I think we have left those bounds. So it's a a loss of social security. Uh friends, family are weakening. Community base is weakening and moral base is weakening. And that to me explains what I think is the deep root cause of our a lot of our political problems, which is a spiritual and relational crisis. The rise of disconnection, the rise of loneliness, the rise of suicide. Uh 45% of teenagers say they're persistently hopeless and despondent. The number of Americans who say they have no close friends has gone up four-fold since 2000. And so we've just seen a decay at the foundations of society. And that has perverted uh our politics. Let's try and move to solutions. The spiritual and personal disconnection. How do you think how do you think we repair this? If you I imagine get called a lot by probably not this White House, but you probably have a lot of influencing it asked a lot. What what are the two or three programs you believe warrant real investment and attention to try and heal this this decay? Well, first on the political front, you know, I thought Joe Biden had one job uh and his job was to redirect resources to the places that have been left behind and I thought he basically succeeded at that. If you look at the people who received the money from the build back better and the big infrastructure bills and all that stuff, they were mostly Republican rural places. And if you look at where the big Rahm Emanuel who was then our ambassador to Japan produced a map where he uh he showed where the big massive investments are in chip plants and other kind of manufacturing facilities. And the good news for me was like out of the top hundred only two were in California but five or six or seven were in Illinois and five or six or seven were in Iowa upstate New York. And as I travel around the country, I find a lot of those places. You go to Eastern Ohio, they're happy because they got an Intel plant coming in there. You go to around Syracuse, they're happy because they got a micron plant coming in. There really is some bit of economic renaissance. It did not bloom enough to reward Joe Biden. And the second mistake Biden made was you can't fundamentally solve a problem of respect with economic resources. that it's not only that these places have been left behind materially, but they've been left behind in terms of status and respect. And the Democrats still have not managed to find a way to show solidarity and respect to a lot of working-class voters. And crossing that cultural divide is is a chief challenge, I think, for the party. But then if you're talking about the social and relational crisis, you know, I do two things. I'll just tell you what I do. I started a nonprofit called Weave, the social fabric project. And we celebrate and reward and support people who are in working in the neighborhoods where they live. Uh, and they uh they're rebuilding trust in those communities. And we give them money. We give them support. We give them v platforms to tell their stories. And culture changes when a small group of people find a better way to live and the rest of us copy. So you pick the community leaders in your neighborhood and you hold them up and say, "Let's be more like them. Let's build connection." And then the final thing I did, I had a book come out a year ago called How to Know a Person? And that's based on the idea that a lot of the disconnection is that people just don't have skills. How do you sit with someone who's suffering from depression? How do you sit with someone who's grieving? How do you ask for an offer forgiveness? How do you break up with somebody without crushing their heart? These are basic social skills. And for a couple generations, we simply have not taught them. And so to me, one of the reason we have such high levels of distrust and disconnection is we haven't taught people the practical skills of how to be considerate to each other in the concrete circumstances of life. And so these are the at least the things I've chosen to try to work on to as my my piece of the of the larger challenge. Something that struck me in your work is that you advocate for putting moral formation at the center of society. What does that mean and how tactically does that become operationalized? Yeah. When our founders created this country, they took around look around human nature and said we're if we're going to build a democracy out of these people, we have to work hard on moral formation. Uh and moral formation is a pompous word, but my favorite definition comes from the gospel of Ted Lasso. And he says his job at coach of this football team he was coaching is to make these fellas better versions of themselves on and off the field. and schools, unions, civic organizations, they used to think that moral formation was part of their job. It was to perform the character of their kids. Uh and uh there was a school called the Stow School and the headmaster said, "Our job is to turn out students who are acceptable at a dance, invaluable at a shipwreck." They wanted to turn out students who were reliable when the chips were down. And sometime after the war, the whole ethos changed. And we went from a a understanding of human nature is that we're we're beautiful creatures, but we're also deeply flawed. We went to a version of human nature is that we're beautiful. People are good inside. There's an angel inside. All you have to do is self-actualize yourself. And if you think you're perfect inside, you don't need to do moral formation. And so all sorts of institutions got out of the moral formation business and into the self-actualization business, including the Girl Scouts, including the schools. And then gradually the schools became just more careerist. They're not about they're not about moral formation. They're about getting you into Harvard. They're about getting you a job. And so to me, that whole side of human nature, the whole side of human activity, which to me is the most important side. How can we become slightly better versions of ourselves, uh we abandoned it and we're left uh with the consequences and we left, frankly, with a country that can elect Donald Trump because they look at him and they don't see anything wrong. Uh and and that's that's the consequences. The thing I struggle with, I think that makes a lot of sense, right? I think of Boy Scouts, which doesn't exist anymore. They're scouts for America and the Girl Scouts get their own gender, but Boy Scouts no longer exists. I think of I used to my I used to go to church, temple, my dad was married four times, so I was exposed to a lot of different different institutions. And I recognize the importance there. Having said that, I worry that universities like the one I teach at offer a lot of courses in sustainability, leadership, ethics, and quite frankly, I find for the most part they're just student debt and an opportunity to bring in what I'd call FIPS, formerly important people to basically over and over say one thing, do the right thing even when it's hard, such we can charge kids more and more money. I I I just I wonder if again Democrats have decided at at we have decided in higher education that we're no longer centers of excellence. We're social engineers and evangelists of a certain orthodoxy that again it's the right idea but it's gotten out of control at universities. Any thoughts? Yeah. Well, just to stick with universities, I I in the course of American history, universities have gone through different regimes. And the first regime was the piety regime. They were Christian institutions and they they were there to instill Christian virtues. Then in the 19th century there was the humanistic ideal which is we're going to still create moral formation but we're not going to use the gospels. We're going to use the basically the great conversation the European writers from Aristotle to Shakespeare Franc to Bacon and all the way. Then in the middle of the 20th century the ideal shifted to the research ideal. We're a bunch of specialists here to advance knowledge. And then it shifted to the career ideal. our our job as universities is to uh uh get kids high-paying jobs. And then because those last two ideals were so morally vacuous, uh the social justice ideal uh filled the moral vacuum and said our job is to be activists and to uh create to help people who've been part of marginalized groups. And that of course is a noble activity, but it's not the right activity for the universities. uh in part because it turned teaching into a form of indoctrination. It turned students into a form of um diplomats from their identity groups. Uh but most and what we're seeing now is that if you fix your university to a political party and say we're activist, we're the activist wing of the Democratic party, well guess what? The Republicans are going to take it out on you. And that's what's happening. And I'm hoping the universities will realize their a new ideal which is to return to the humanistic ideal which is character formation more than political activism but then to return to a civic ideal. Our universities spend and like a lot of institutions spend a lot more time helping people prosper in their private lives without thinking carefully what's our role in our civic life and why do we have so many universities that are blue bubbles in red neighborhoods or in red states uh because they're they're not interacting with the civic life uh as a whole they've withdrawn to the campus walls and so to me universities are great institutions they are great great institutions that are really one of the keys to America's greatness, but they've lost their mission. And I'm hoping under challenge from Trump and the rest of them that they'll rediscover their mission and find out our job is really to form people and to create citizens and to be civic institutions that bind society across difference and across class difference. And that would be a noble mission and a real recovery for American universities. We'll be right back. You actually introduced me to someone who's had a profound impact on my life because you basically wrote what was sort of an adjacent review of his book. Back in 2022, you wrote a piece for the New York Times called the crisis of men and boys and it introduced me to Richard Reeves. Richard's become a good friend and just the data was so overwhelming to me and in a weird way I felt like later late in life I'd found you know a sort of a purpose and that was to talk about this issue and we think about it a lot here most of our 80% of our listenership is is uh is men. What are your thoughts on struggling young men and specifically masculinity? I I do think um one of the beautiful things Richard has accomplished is to make sure this is not a zero- sum game and he emphasized this over and over again that what's good for males is not bad for females. Uh, and that should be obvious, but Richard struggled to get the book published years ago because a lot of people had this zero sum thinking in their head. And I think the the crisis of masculinity is in part a system as Richard says where the schools are not designed for boys. But I think it's it's primarily that loss of purpose uh that loss of sense that how do I express uh there's a British philosopher named Shirley Robin Lewin who wrote a book about the vigorous virtues that we want to be we want people who are loyal to friends tough on foes dynamic risk-taking courageous brave and these virtues some of these virtues have been shoved aside uh in in the effort to create a more compassionate societ society and that's a beautiful effort. But people want to be courageous. They want to do things on behalf of some moral ideal that requires courage, force, strength, and frankly selfmastery. And I look at all the podcasters who are now like gigantic buff ripped guys and they look like they swallowed a weight machine. Uh and but and but that's discipline. It's something you can relate to. And I'm not a buff guy by any means, but you could you you see why young men want that because it gives them something that's hard. Uh and it it gives it fills the urge to self-improvement. And we went a few decades by saying the things a lot of guys want, not all guys obviously, those things are toxic or those things are bad or those things are aggressive and destructive. But they're aggressive and destructive only when used to serve evil ends. But to serve noble ends, the idea of self-improvement, the idea of being aggressive, the idea of being strong, uh, is something, uh, we should celebrate and give people avenues toward um, and just, you know, I hope I'm not violating your privacy, but Richard has a tradition of taking a camping trip on New Year's Eve, and it can get cold in that 10 to 9°. Uh and that's what that's the kind of love of adventure that not only boys want girls want that too. Uh and we we've we've reduced the ways uh young people can experience adventure in part because of all the helicopter parenting. You talk about things around community and comedy of man and care for your neighbors. I don't hear you talk about your own family a lot and to the extent you're comfortable. I'd just be very interested to know we have a lot of young men who listen, a lot of new dads, a lot of new husbands. We're on the back nine, right? And hopefully we've learned some stuff that we can impart on other people or share our mistakes so other people don't make the same ones. What advice would you have for new dads and what have you learned about being a dad? Yeah. Well, I was like a lot of guys. Uh, I had trouble expressing my emotions. I think I felt emotions, but there was no highway between my heart and my mouth, so I didn't know how to talk about them. Uh, and I had a natural fear of them, I guess. Uh, and there's a moment that represents the way I used to be to myself. I I love baseball. I go to a lot of baseball games. I've never c caught a foul ball. And I'm in Baltimore with my youngest son and the batter loses control of the bat and it flies into the stands and lands in my lap. And a normal human being, like getting a bat is a thousand times better than getting a ball. A normal human being is waving his trophy in the air, my bat, and I'm high-fiving everybody and getting on the jumbo time. I'm hugging people. I took the bat and just put it on the ground and just sat there. And I look back on that guy and I see, show a little moral joy. Show a little joy. Like that's a great event. you should be celebrating in public. But I was so inhibited that I didn't know how to be emotionally open in public. Uh and I went through a hard time after that. Uh I went through divorce. Um uh my kids left for school and I was living in a little apartment. I was lonely and fiercely lonely. And there's a saying that when you're in those hard times in your life, you can be either be broken or broken open. And if you're broken, you turn hard. you turn into a lobster shell and nothing can touch you. But if you're broken open, you get even more vulnerable and you you stay in the pain to learn what it has to teach you. And what my pain had to teach me was that I was misleading my life by not living from the depths of myself, but living from the shallows. It was very easy for me to use glibness and reason to do fine in life without confronting the spiritual and in some way relational um shortages and vacuums I'd created. And so I I did it the way I do it. I I read books about spirituality and and I came to faith uh in this time. But mostly I just became a lot more able to express my emotions, express vulnerability. And that can be an easy drug to express vulnerability. Too easy. But I think I'm different. And my friends tell me that I'm different. When my wife, we've been married 8 years, um she looks at earlier versions of me on video, she says, "Well, I wouldn't have married that guy." Uh and so I guess my the lesson is to um to become familiar with your emotional and spiritual life. Uh and it will bring you greater pains and greater joys. But you have to do that either through spiritual practices. For me, it's in the case of spiritual reading. I'm that's how I process. But it's also uh through the process of deeper conversations. I'll tell you one quick story. Uh when I was in between marriages, I was dating. Uh and I was talking to my daughter on the phone and I asked her what she was doing that weekend. And she said, "You know, I'm a little nervous because I'm going to meet my boyfriend's parents for the first time." And I said to her, you know, I'm a little nervous cuz I'm going to meet my girlfriend's parents for the first time. And in that moment, our relationship went from being adult to child to adult to adult. And we could talk about things that we that as a parent sometimes you don't want to talk open up too much to your kids, but when it's adult to adult, you can open up a little more. Not totally, but open up a little more. And that was a beautiful shift in our relationship that to be able to just be adults and adults together working through crap. Uh and I found that was that's a beautiful moment. And the overall lesson I would say is no matter what your age, it's never too late to change. People change not just in adolescence, they change through adulthood. And and the emotional the the transformation I needed in my life was an emotional one. Thoughts on being um a good partner, good husband. Yeah. There was a guy named Tim Keller who wrote a book called The Meaning of Marriage. Uh and he said um you get married and you married this wonderful person uh and about 6 months in you realize that she's actually kind of selfish in some ways and as you're making this discovery about her she's making it about you. Uh and marriage work when you realize well my kind of selfishness is the only selfishness I can work on. And he says if you have two partners in a marriage who are working on their selfishness then you're probably going to have good marriage and not blaming the other. The other thing I'd say is who you marry is just tremendously important. And Nietze who you don't think of as a particularly romantic guy said marriage is a 50-year conversation. Pick the person you can talk with for the rest of your life. And so if you find somebody who you can talk on the phone with for four hours, that's a pretty good indicator. The second thing I'd add is that love comes and goes, but admiration stays. So stay with someone you admire. Pick someone you admire and they will not let you down. And then the final bit of advice I give to college students in picking a marriage partner, which is to me the most one of the most important decisions in life is uh there are three kinds of love according to the Greeks. There's aeros which is passion. There's uh uh friendship. Uh, and then there's agape love, which is selfish love. And if you're going to marry someone, you should have all three kinds of love. If you just have aos, you have a hookup, but you don't have a relationship. If you just have Philly, a friendship, you have a friendship, but you don't have a romantic love. You should have all three. Uh, and so the bar should be pretty high. And and so that's some of the advice I give on making a marriage decision. Um, I'm not sure anybody listens, but that's my advice. So, you've been very generous with your time. I'm gonna do just a quick lightning round because um you know um you you're a busy dude. So real quick um best piece of advice you've ever received. Uh I guess know something about something when you get out of school. Find some field of expertise that you can really study and then you bring that to the table. A second bit of advice I would give to young people is build identity capital. that there's a meg wrote a book called the defining decade about being in your 20s and she had a patient who uh wanted to work at Starbucks but had a job offer at Outwardbound. She said go to Outwardbound because at every job interview at every dinner party people want to know what it was it like to work on Outwardbound. That will give you identity capital and so I find that's pretty good advice. Last piece of media that really moved you? Well, I'm now listening on audiobook to Andre Agassiy's memoir, which is one of the best modern memoirs I've ever read. He's a guy who hated tennis. His dad was an absolute monster who who forced him to do tennis. And Agassi hated tennis all the way through. And so, to me, it's very I found it tremendously moving a guy who's really good at an activity that he absolutely hates. and the way he struggles with this hatred and this really imprisonment. Uh I find his his courage and audacity really moving and he's just a beautiful writer for a guy who dropped out of high school in 9th grade. He didn't have the benefits of an education but he's obviously a brilliant guy and it's just tremendously moving look at mastery uh and finding the things that you really want to do. Uh and I I I just can't re recommend that book enough. If you could go back in time and visit someone who's gone, who would it be and what would you say to them? Well, I have a lot of questions for Jesus. So, that's a pretty big ask. Yeah. All right. Well, we'll stop. And then, uh, you you talked about finding your purpose. Last question. What is David Brook's purpose? Well, my purpose now is to, you know, there's a concept, I forget who came up with it, called the the lake. We all pour into the lake. The lake is the our conversations and we all are little tributaries pouring into the lake and we learn we listen we listen to your podcast and we we learn and we improve our lives just because we we're all learning from each other and so part of my job is just to pour into the lake like everybody's job but I think my u my two core missions if I have ask first is to try to defend a political ideology a belief system this conservatism of Alexander Hamilton I try to embody that second I try to embody just a civil way of being in the world. Uh, and third, I think American society is, as you can tell from my conversation over the last 45 minutes, is overpoliticized and undermoralized. I think we think too much about politics and too little about our moral and relational growth. And so, I've tried to write books that are sort of about that. Uh, giving people tips and pointers of how to be better friends, how to be better listeners, how to be better conversationalists. And I think it's in those minute interactions of life that really the health of society is determined. David Brooks is one of the nation's leading writers and commentators. He is an op-ed columnist for the New York Times and a writer for The Atlantic. He is the best-selling author of The Second Mountain, The Road to Character, The Social Animal, Bobose in Paradise, and on Paradise Drive. He joins us from Washington DC. David, I've admired you for so long uh from afar. I feel as if I know you and I. I realize we've never met in person. And you bring this peanut butter and chocolate combination of your commentary is puncturing, unafraid, analytical, very strong, but you always feel like at the end of the day, you're a gentle soul. I I think you're a wonderful role model for young men and really appreciate your contribution not only to your domain, but just to to larger society. It was a real pleasure to meet you and appreciate your time. Thank you. I'm I've always I've been a fan of yours and it's a huge honor to be on this on this podcast. So, I I really appreciate the invitation. [Music]