How do you respond to the notion or the argument that we've been a kleptocracy for a while? Effectively, isn't Trump doing what everyone's been doing, but he's not doing it for small ball? The Democrats do it for hundreds of thousands and he's doing it for billions. You know, those are pieces of the story and the and the buildup to where we are. And maybe they explain part of why so many people tolerated Trump. Um but again, I don't think there's an example of any politician um using office while in office to become a multi-billionaire. Um and I and I don't think it's a I don't think it's just a matter of numbers. I I think it's a it's a completely different attitude. And where does this podcast find you? I am in Washington DC, our nation's capital. How's the mood there right now? Um, a little paranoid, a little stressed. I mean, it depends a little bit on who you are, but uh, you know, I have a nextoor neighbor who works for the Department of Education. Um, I know lots of people who work for HHS. Uh, I know plenty of people who worked for USAD and all of them are watching things they've worked on all of their lives be destroyed. So, it's a tough moment. You recently wrote a piece for The Atlantic arguing that under Trump, the US is sliding towards uh kleptocracy, a system where leaders use political powers for political powers for financial gain. Before we get into the specifics, can you help ground us? What exactly is a kleptocracy and how is it different from other forms of autocracy or corruption? So, a a kleptocracy, maybe it's a fancy word for a profoundly corrupt dictatorship, but it's a it's a political system in which the leaders of the country um not only exercise political power, but they also exercise economic power and probably own a lot of the economy. So, Russia is a kleptocracy. uh you have people who are have both political and economic power at the top of the system and they use I think maybe this is the key point they use their political influence to make money for themselves in other words the policy of the Russian state its foreign policy its domestic policy is not being made for the benefit of Russians of ordinary Russians the policy is being made for the benefit of a group of very wealthy people who earn their money out of state decisions and the US is very rapidly moving in that direction. Uh the question there are questions now to be asked about some of our foreign policy is that is it being conducted in the interest of Americans or is it being conducted in the interest of Trump, maybe his family, uh maybe maybe the business community around him. We've had presidents before who were incompetent or who made mistakes or whose foreign policies failed in various different ways, but I don't think we've ever had a president whose foreign policy and whose perhaps domestic policy are not designed for the purposes of making American life better. And I think that's where we're heading. By some estimates, the Trump family has increased their personal net worth approximately $3 billion since the launch the Friday before inauguration of the Trump coin. Can you think of any other instance in history anywhere where one president, prime minister, dictator, you know, general counsel, whatever, has managed to sequester $3 billion from the economy in a 100 days? I mean, obviously not. uh you can you can point to many other instances of corruption around the world. Uh in US history there have been corrupt presidents in the past or people who were thought to be corrupt but that usually was if you look at the details there were people who perhaps tolerated some corruption around them. Uh I don't know Ulissiz Srant supposedly let his wife's family make money off government contracts that kind of thing. Um, but there is there is no incidence of a president while in office while in office enriching himself like this. I don't think there's any precedent for it and I don't think we've seen anything like it before. How do you respond to the notion or the argument that we've been a kleptocracy for a while when you have Speaker Emirita Pelosi meeting with HHS and getting a sense for they're considering using AI for payment systems and then she goes and buys call options on Tempest AI and when it's disclosed she's purchased those call options they surge that I mean effectively isn't Trump doing what everyone's been doing but he's not doing it for small ball the Democrats do it for hundreds of thousands and he's doing it for billions. But isn't hasn't this been going on for a while? You can certainly talk about this slide into corruption uh which goes back as you say a while. I mean, I I I don't want to put a date on it, but both the um I think certainly since the Citizens United Supreme Court decision that made US elections a kind of Las Vegas free-for-all where almost any amount of money can be spent, the change in ethics, I think that that meant that more and more members of Congress were using insider information to play the stock market, both Democrats and Republicans. And those are, you know, those are pieces of the story and the and the buildup to where we are. and maybe they explain part of why so many people tolerated Trump. Um but again, I don't think there's an example of any politician um using office while in office to become a multi-billionaire. Um and I and I don't think it's a I don't think it's just a matter of numbers. I I think it's a it's a completely different attitude. I don't think Nancy Pelosy's entire policy while she was speaker was designed to make herself personally rich. I don't think that was her goal. I don't think that's what and actually I don't say that I don't think there were um Republicans um lead speakers of the house whose whose whose political philosophy was deliberately designed to make themselves rich or who were who were who were doing things solely for that purpose. And I think you can ask whether Trump is doing that. you know, one of the you you you mentioned his uh his cryptocurrency business which did a deal in the last um you know, in the last day day or two with with the Emirates. Uh it was a sort of major Emirati investment into that into that company. Trump also has a uh a financial relationship with the Saudi government whose sa stateowned Saudi companies sponsor his a golf tournament that took place at his golf course a few weeks ago and they the head of the Saudi sovereign wealth fund was was at that tournament and was as one of its sponsors. In other words, these are countries with which the US has political relationships and whose, you know, and whose and whose leaders are interested in influencing US politics. And the president, meanwhile, has an ongoing financial relationship with those governments and with those leaders. That that's not anything that Nancy Pelosi did in the past. I actually see the more damaging part of this, it's not as romantic or interesting, is that companies now there's I would describe this sort of domino of cowardice in the private sector where nobody wants to speak out because you do his bidding, he'll make you rich. uh believe about 30 people within a few hours made 700 or $800 million in the launch of the Trump coin and then over the course of the next few weeks when it crashed about 80,000 retail investors lost several billion dollars. So there's upside but there's also a downside and that is if you speak out he might decide that you don't get an exemption for the tariffs or he might you know implement some sort of crazy policy that just distracts or hurts your company. Is that the difference? Is that a slide from kleptocracy to autocracy? It certainly makes the state and in particular Trump himself an arbiter of the economy in a way that um we used to think as Americans and I think this is even both Democrats and Republicans was um you know was was damaging and immoral. It puts the White House in a position of being able to decide who wins and who loses you know at least for large companies and at least in some businesses. And that is a that does make us, you know, certainly certainly on the path to becoming a Russian style political system. Yes. Uh speaking of going from depressing to really depressing, this isn't like we've uncovered something. It's been not transparent, but it's out in the open. And it appears that despite what is obviously a slow creep or a fast u you know train barreling down the tracks towards ecletocracy that uh if America doesn't want it, it's tolerating it. I just saw a poll saying that if the election were held again today, Trump would still beat Harris and the Democratic party is less popular than Trump. Hasn't the failure been or do you think the failure kind of rests with us educators, the media, a lack of civics courses, our inability to communicate to the populace that the kleptocracies don't don't typically serve the citizenship well because as far as I can tell, America has decided they'd rather have a kleptocrat than a weak party. Your thoughts? I don't I don't know that most people understand yet what's happened. I mean, you know, these stories come very fast. I actually started collecting the the kleptocracy stories. Some of them are in the that article I wrote for The Atlantic um a couple weeks ago, but I'm also collecting them, you know, for for for future use. And there is something almost every day either it's a violation of the emalments clause of the constitution which says that Trump shouldn't or the president sorry shouldn't take money or any any favors from foreign governments or foreign countries or it's a emergion of a new conflict of interest somebody in the administration has clearly conflicted both a business and a political interest in in in in something I mean the classic example that is Elon Musk who is has influence now over government agency agencies who regulate his own companies and who subsidize his own companies. I mean, that's that's an outrageous conflict of interest of a kind that is, you know, we would have thought was illegal. Or it's a legal change. you know, the the administration announcing, for example, it won't it will no longer enforce um the foreign foreign corrupt practices act, which which prohibits American companies from bribing uh using bribery abroad. Um or the corporate transparency act, which was supposed to make the world of shell companies and anonymous businesses more transparent. Um you know, or it's just plain corruption of the kind that we've been discussing. You know, the Trump family just taking money um in exchange for uh in exchange for political favors. And there there's many many of those stories every day. And I am not sure how much people are yet able to pay attention to them or to understand them. I mean there's another problem. There's been a problem for a long time with the world of kleptocracy in the world of money laundering and shell companies and so on which is that it's very very complicated. It can be hard to explain. I mean I've read a lot of books about moneyaundering. There there's some there have been some good ones in recent years. There's a good book called American Kletocracy. There's a good book called Pleptopia. Um uh and almost all of them are are would be hard for layman to grasp. It's a story about moving money around the world very quickly quickly. It's about shell companies. It's about manipulation. Um and and I'm not sure that people get it yet. You know what what will have to happen is for people to begin to connect these stories to their own personal experience. um when they understand that they are poor because the Trump family is rich. And this is something when you look at anti-corruption campaigns around the world, this is this is when the moment when they succeed. So I mean the most famous example of this is Alexi Noni's campaign in Russia. So this was the great Russian dissident who was died in a in a Russian prison um some months ago. uh and he his he was the most successful campaigner against uh Vladimir Putin and he did so by talking about uh theft and by talking about corruption and also by talking about how bad the roads are in Russia and how bad the hospitals are and how underpaid the doctors are. And he made the case that there was a connection between these things and and people understood him. He made these spectacular. They were they were documentaries really. I was going to say videos, but they were long. They were an hour or two hours. And he would sketch out these elaborate schemes that the president was carrying out or the president's uh entourage. Uh and he would and he would show that sometimes they were funny. He would they would they used video, they used drone footage. Um and they but they also showed the connection between that world and the world of ordinary Russians. And that is the link that the Democratic Party will have to make and that I hope journalists who cover this stuff will also begin to make. You know, it's not enough to talk about crypto or schemes or fraud. It that's something that I don't think people get. But when you explain, as I said, that they are doing this in order to benefit themselves and not you. uh and that the the the policy of the United States, whether it's the foreign policy or the domestic policy or the economic policy, is being uh twisted and manipulated to benefit them and not ordinary Americans, then I then I think you'll begin to get some some political leverage from from this. So there's so many occasiated with this administration is okay, there's other kleptocracies, but cacistocracy and that is I would argue that Putin and she have competent people around them and I don't think that's the case here. Any thoughts on what could I think could be fairly described as a cacistocracy now in the United States? Do you do much thinking or writing about this topic? I don't think I've ever used the word cacistocracy in my writing. Um but maybe I've addressed the the idea which is that it's the rule of the worst people or the you know of the of the least competent. I mean there is something um there is something about who who Trump attracts to his orbit and what kind of people want to work with him and be around him. And you almost anybody who has real character, who has any ideals, who has any commitment to truthtelling, um, to evidence, um, to to to even even even just to reality itself, to the world of real facts, is almost immediately made uncomfortable in the presence of Donald Trump because Donald Trump is somebody who's constantly sheep seeking to shape reality to his own benefit, to change the facts, to to tell a story or make up a myth. uh and who and who's and who's perfectly capable of being totally inconsistent from one day to the next or even from one hour to the next. I mean, the the the tariff story uh at one minute he was justifying the tariffs because it's going to bring back manufacturing to America. Another minute he was justifying them a few minutes later on the grounds that he was going to do great deals with countries, but if you're going to do deals and lift tariffs, then that's not going to bring back manufacturing to America. But he feels no need to be consistent and he feels no need to to be accurate. And so anybody who does, anyone who cares about telling the truth or about presenting accurate uh you know vision of the world or or who cares about making policy based on reality and not on this fiction that that Trump promotes is uncomfortable. And that means that all the people around him are simply manipulable and they're willing to just do whatever he says or they're people who have made a big a kind of moral sacrifice, you know, who who are doing something they know to be wrong. Uh, you know, and you could sometimes you can see it on their faces. I mean, I think this was the core problem that Mike Waltz had actually, you know, the reason why he didn't fit into Trump's inner circle wasn't just because he put my editor Jeffrey Goldberg on a signal chat. It was also because he at least in the past had had an attachment to a certain ideas about foreign policy, a certain belief of America, what what role it should play in the world. And he was just unable to lie convincingly on behalf of Trump when that violated his own, you know, his his own morality or his own sense of the world. And and he just couldn't be around Trump any longer. And of course, that happened repeatedly in Trump's first term. And in his second term, these are people who are self- selected. There are people who know what kind of person Trump is who want to be there anyway. And so, as we used to say about Polish communists, for for listeners who don't know, I lived part of the time in Poland. Either they're liars or they're stupid. I mean, either they go along with it because they don't know better or they go along with it but know, you know, but know it to be wrong. So, let's move to potential solutions. And granted, this is is a naive take, but my sense is the only way to step back from a kleptocracy is fairly swift punishment that sends a very strong signal that this won't be tolerated. Uh, and I don't know if America's capable of that. So, one, do you agree that it's hard to pull back from it without pretty swift punitive action, imprisoning people or worse? Or more generally, how have you seen large economies that claim to be democratic walk back from this type of klepto kleptocracy or autocracy? The country that I know best that is trying to move back uh is actually Poland. It Poland had an autocratic populist government in power from 2015 to 2023. Um and one of the features of that government like all autocratic populist government is that it became very corrupt. Um the scale was different. This is Poland not the United States. Um you know they weren't they were they were bound by the rules of the European Union and so that this this as I said it wasn't the stunning theft that we're seeing take place inside the United States. Nevertheless, there were there was a lot of money stolen in effect from the state and and put into people's pockets. There was then an election which was um unfair but yet the opposition was able to win partly by putting together a broad coalition sort of center right center left liberal coalition uh and now they are seeking to um you know prosecute the previous government and hold them to account and it is indeed very difficult um it's very difficult partly because um the the judiciary was changed and manipulated by the previous government. So that's part of the story. It's partly difficult because the president, although this may change in a few weeks, is still from the previous government and so and he's been blocking a lot. He's able to view to pardon people actually and block a lot of the changes. Even mobilizing the um the prosecutors, mobilizing the the state to to go after in a fair and systematic and legal way is pretty difficult. I mean, I think actually Poland is a lesson of of how once you destroy things and once you destroy particularly the the ethos of government, you know, once you've kicked out of government all the people who are there for idealistic reasons, you know, who don't mind working for less money because they think they're doing something on behalf of Americans and once you've replaced a lot of those civil servants with loyalists, it's very hard to find new ones. Um, and that's another that's a that's a related piece of the story I'm worried about in the US that once you have kicked out everyone who works for the American government because they love America and instead have people who work for the American government because they think they might make money doing it um, corruptly or because they're loyal not to America but to Donald Trump, you're going to you're you'll you'll find in later years that the government lacks capacity to do things that the the people who should be there to fix problems um or to manage risks aren't aren't aren't there anymore. So, it's a it's a it's a long it's a long walk backwards. I mean, in our case, there there really three ways in which um in which this could be stopped. Actually, the simplest way would be for I don't know what it is, three or four Republican senators uh and a handful, six or seven members of the House to decide they want to stop it. uh to join with the Democrats to elect, you know, an independent or a a bipartisan speaker and a bipartisan leader of the Senate uh and begin to to certainly they could they could end this this fake emergency decree that Trump is using to to to impose these tariffs. Um they could certainly begin to conduct investigations into what's going on. I mean it's Congress that has the investigative power to do this but right now we don't have you know we don't have a majority in Congress that's able to do that. So that would be that is actually the fastest thing that could happen. Um that you know the the the second way it could happen is that voters decide at the next election which is you know still many months from now. uh but they could decide to to hand Congress to the opposition political party to enable them to conduct this and enable them to do it but that would require really decisive vote from a lot of people including in red states because the moving the Senate is uh is not so easy. Um and then you know finally we would need um you know we would need the courts um to begin to respond perhaps um to begin to demand some kind of change. I mean the the of course the tragedy is that the real the bodies in our system who are supposed to investigate federal corruption are the department of justice and the FBI. Uh and those are controlled by Trump. So they're not available to us right now uh as as as tools to do that. But uh maybe it would it would we would now have to wait for a future president. Um unless of course this president was impeached. We'll be right back after the break. Support for the show comes from Betterment. When investing your money starts to feel like a second job, Betterment steps in with a little work life balance. They're an automated investing and savings app, which means they do the work. While they build and manage your portfolio, you build and manage your weekend plans. While they make it easy to invest for what matters, you just get to enjoy what matters. Their automated tools simplify the complex and put your money to work optimizing day after day and again and again. So go ahead, take your time to rest and recharge because while your money doesn't need a work life balance, you do. Make your money hustle with Betterment. Get started at betterment.com. That's b tt er nt t.com. Investing involves risk, performance not guaranteed. Support for Prop comes from built rewards. If you're a renter, I have two important words to say to you. Built rewards. You already rack up points on groceries, travel, and nearly everything else. So, why aren't you earning points on your rent, too? Paying rent with built rewards earns you flexible, transferable points and unlocks exclusive benefits along the way. So, what do I mean by that? Just by paying rent, you unlock flexible points that can be transferred to your favorite hotels and airlines. A future rent payment, your next lift ride, and more. No matter where you live or who your landlord is, your rent now works for you. But that's not all. With Built, you gain access to exclusive neighborhood benefits in your city. Built's neighborhood benefits are things like extra points or dining out, complimentary post-workout shakes, free mats or towels at your favorite fitness studios, and unique experiences that are only available to Build members. And in case you are wondering, there's no cost to join. Start paying rent through built and take advantage of your neighborhood benefits by going to joinbuilt.com/profg. That's j o i nbt.com/propg. Make sure to use our URL so they know we sent you joinbuilt.com/propg to sign up for built today. [Music] My understanding is that in leading up to World War II that the private sector in Germany basically did sort of a a deal or several deals with Hitler that said you bust our trade unions, you financially um favor us and we'll support you and then it kind of spun out of control uh so to speak and it got got to a point where they were powerless to do anything about it. Do you see any parallels in terms of the private sector in Germany enabling Hitler with what's happening here? Specifically, I've just been shocked that all of these independent thinkers who think of themselves as leaders have been so quiet and have just sort of gone along. Whether it's paying 30 or $40 million for some documentary on the first lady or deciding that no, just kidding. I'm not going to put tariffs on the home p on the pricing page or just not saying anything when you know you know that they're very much against some of these policies. How what's your observation around the private sector uh in America right now as it relates to this and any historical references? So I'm always reluctant to compare America to Nazi Germany because then every all anybody can think about is how Nazi Germany ended. Um, and I don't feel like there's going to be a Holocaust here very soon. So, um, I it's it, you know, it always creates the wrong image. It also creates, um, an image of dictatorship that's wrong. You know, when people think of Nazis, they think of stormtroopers and people goostepping through the streets and that that's what authoritarianism looks like. And of course, in the modern world, that's often not what it looks like. Democracies end nowadays usually because they are a democratic elected leader slowly takes over the institutions of the state or not a boom now. Right. Yeah. And it and it can take some time and it can be very smooth and it doesn't necessarily involve violence. Um and so that that's the way democracies fail. If you look at Hungary, if you look at Turkey, if you look at Venezuela, if you look at what almost happened in Poland but but but wasn't completed. um you know that that's not a there there isn't mass violence or street violence of the kind we so that's why I don't like the comparison however having said that you are right that there are multiple instances of company heads um business people you know in Nazi Germany in other autocracies thinking that they can do a deal or they can benefit from the system and that they won't eventually suffer and there are also multiple instances of them ultimately suffering I mean Of course the German economy you know the stock market went up and up and up uh I think until stalenrad or at you know some turning point of the war uh and then it collapsed never to recover um and and and you know many businesses were destroyed and people's lives were ruined. I mean that's that's an extreme example but even in even if you look at Hungary lots of business people who thought at first you know Orban was talking you know you know talking the talk of free markets and and he was somebody who was going to be friendly to them. I mean they too slowly lost control of their companies as the Hungarian state played a bigger and bigger role somewhat like Trump wants to do in deciding essentially who got rich and who didn't um in making the rules of the system so that they would benefit a particular group of companies who are close to him uh in his case it's his son-in-law who became very rich rather than his sons uh and and and a couple of his childhood friends and eventually I mean I know a Hungarian businessman who wound up leaving the country I mean he eventually sold sold his businesses in the country. He he moved away. Um he was very he had some still had relatives there. So he's been rather quiet, but he understood finally that he couldn't operate anymore in a system unless he was going to have a kind of corrupt relationship with the ruling party. And I'm afraid that American businessmen es I mean especially the big businesses are making a huge mistake by imagining that it's going to be good for them in the long run to go along with this because if they seed that kind of power to the White House, you know, if they let the White House make arbitrary decisions, whimsical decisions about who can do this deal and who can who's allowed to escape the tariffs and who can't, u then first of all it's bad for the economy in the long term and you know that just the the insecurity and the volatility will be bad for everybody's business but also at some point they could very well end up on the wrong side of that deal. Um as as the whim moves in the other direction and as others others become favored uh and you know there's you know in almost every case that I've mentioned the sooner or later the economic decline catches up. I mean Hungary is a great example. It's a it's a it's a country that was the you know in the early 1990s which is when I first started going there it was the kind of gem of central Europe. They started privatization early in the in the 1980s. By the time communism fell they were ready for it. There were a lot of good investment opportunities. A lot of foreign companies moved into Budapest. It's an attractive city. Uh food was good. uh and you know and it and it felt like it was it was moving upwards if you know but since Orban has taken over um you see you saw the boom continue for a while and in recent years you're now beginning to see this very distinct decline so much so that Hungary depending on which measurement you use is either the poorest country in the European Union or the second or third poorest and it's behind in all kinds of measures of productivity of governance has very poor poor health care system, poor education, it's sliding downwards. And the slide downwards is directly connected to the authoritarian system that Orban built and of course which many people around Trump admire. You know, it it enabled corruption. It gave too much power to the state. Uh it gave too much power to the people around Orban to again to decide to make rules and laws that benefited them and their friends. Uh and and ultimately it was bad for everybody else. It also encouraged a lot of ineducated Hungarians to leave the country. I mean, they have a they have an immigration problem and despite all this kind of pro- family rhetoric that that Orban uses, uh, people don't seem to want to have children there. Uh, and they and they often leave if they can. And so, that's a it's it's a it's a it's a good indicator. I mean almost every one of these countries I mean and there are more extreme examples like Venezuela uh you know countries that are that are that that lose out where where too much power goes to one person where institutions decline where the independent judiciary declines where the rule of law declines sooner or later there's an economic impact and it's negative and you know Jeff Bezos should know that and um uh you know everybody who runs a large company or a bank in this country should be aware of that and they have some other options I mean I understand that nobody wants their company to be picked out or attacked on truth social, but there are ways in which they could work together. You know, universities could work together, law firms could work together and companies could work together too and begin to speak collectively. And I think that might make a difference. Uh just for the purposes of some some discussion here, just some push back. I find that I get a lot of push back whenever I compare the US right now to 1930s Germany. You know, he's not a genocidal maniac. Say what you will about them. Okay, granted, but I see a nation that was arguably over the last 200 years the most progressive enlightened nation in the world. And it wasn't the US, it was Germany that descended into this darkness for 11 years. And what did they have? They started demonizing immigrants had an economic shock. They started I mean what do we have in the US? We're essentially in some form it's a new form but we are rounding up people innocents and sending them to the equivalent. I won't call them concentration sites, but black sites. We have someone with extreme nationalist rhetoric who sees the world as a zero- sum game. All of our problems are because of the gains of other nations. And also what I think is the most dangerous component that's similar to 30s Germany. We have a a huge group of a population that tends to be more risk aggressive and more prone to violence, specifically young men who are really struggling. And what I would offer a question and ask you to respond is is the US that much less likely to get to that very dark place in four years than Germany was in 1935. So again I the only reason I hesitate with the Germany comparison as I say is because of how it ended and because we know the end of the story. But but you are right that if you look at Germany in 1933 which was the beginning of the story um you can find some parallels. Um and I and and and you're also right that the you know one of the important comparisons to make is is the is the speed with which a a country can transform itself. We all have this image in our head of the United States as being on some kind of even keel. You know, everything has been the same for so long and it will go on being the same. But countries do experience rapid declines. You know, they do experience rapid change and we had it once before in our history during the the civil war. I mean for you know we we we our country plunged into violence and thousands of people killed thousands of other people. I mean I don't I don't foresee that happening now. But you but but you can have moments of of profound change. And you are right that people who are too complacent and who believe it could never happen here because of our history, because of who we are, because we're exceptional, whatever story they're telling themselves are are missing the frequency with which this can happen. So So I um you know, I agree. You're also right that what happened in the early 30s is a pattern that you see in other places. So again, it's a a leader who is legitimately elected or chosen as Hitler was initially um uh you know then deciding to take over the institutions of the state. In other words, um take over the civil service, politicize that, take over the the judges, politicize them, attack the media. Um actually Hitler had this phrase lugan pressa, which means lying pressa, which is something like fake news. the same institutions that he was attacking. And these are of course also the institutions that um that Orban attacked or that Chavez in Venezuela attacked. By the way, this doesn't have to be a right-wing um doesn't have to be a right-wing leader who does it. You can also have leftwing version as well. Um you know, all these moments when you see a a rapid period of decline, it's the same institutions being attacked and undermined and that is happening here. And in that sense, uh your your your comparison is correct. some of your writing and the writing of others is really is illuminated. And let's be honest, I'm a glass half infinity kind of guy. I'm I'm like always thinking about, you know, the end of America, how it might happen. And some of the stuff I've read is is to your point made me believe that it happens not with a bang, but with a just a thud or a whimper. And an example or a scenario, and I want you to respond. 2028 four major states refuse to certify the election and say we don't we don't recognize this president and California basically fifth largest economy in the world starts doing trade with the Asia-Pacific room it's a technology based economy develops its own leadership its own currency Texas oil and gas economy starts its own currency different set of values maybe Florida and the south and maybe the northeast is more about finance with strong relationship with Europe. But basically, we become four nations the size of, I don't know, France and the UK, lose all of our scale, lose a lot of our power in fighting, don't like each other, and start putting up fences and borders, and America just slowly kind of fades not to black, but fades to a much less powerful, inspiring form of black and white. Uh, your thoughts on the that that scenario, and could it happen? And if it could, what I mean, well, I'll start there. Do you think that is in any way uh a reasonable scenario? I would like Americans to be open to the idea of um thinking and imagining scenarios like that because precisely because of how you ended your question because it will help us think about how and why we might want to prevent it. Um, you know, I don't know if it's reasonable to imagine California breaking off or whether uh Texas having its own currency uh is possible. I can imagine very easily actually since we almost had it in in 2020. I can imagine a challenged election um in which some states either don't certify or um some some or don't accept the accept the result. Uh and and you could imagine in many different versions of how that could work out. And there is a president who's um you know who is who's who's not recognized by by some state governors. We and as I said we came very close to that in 2020 and there are still uh I don't know what the percentages are now but at some it was at one point between 20 and 30% of Americans thought the 2020 election was stolen. Um what if that number was 60% or 70%. You know what? If most people thought that the president was illegitimate and had good grounds for thinking that, you know, then you have all kinds of federal institutions losing credibility and people asking whether they still need to obey the law. You know, what what happens to the FBI in those circumstances or the or the Department of Justice or the the instruments that the president has to use. So a kind of radical weakening of the presidency following this period of kind of hyper power being given to the presidency is something I can I can easily imagine. Um and and the the the fact that Donald Trump introduced into our system this profound doubt about elections um means that you can now hear it on both sides actually. I mean, you can hear, you know, I don't know how much time you spend on social media. Probably um probably not so much, but you can you can see there's a piece of the left who who believed the 2024 election was stolen by Elon Musk, you know, or by Trump. Um and that and that uncertainty about results and that doubt about the system, you know, what if that grows to a to a level that um that that makes people question the the legitimacy of the of the whole system. And that that's that's the version that I think we're we could be quite close to. Um so so yeah, and I and I think people it's useful to imagine it. It's useful to think through scenarios because um that reminds people, I think, of what's at stake. I mean, one of the things I find so frustrating is gearing up for the House races in 2026. Uh, I mean, I I think I'm like a lot of Democrats, frustrated that we haven't had a more robust response, if you will. Um, do you have any thoughts? I'm sure you can ask for your advice on what based on what you've seen historically, what if people do in fact think this is dangerous and bad for America, what is sort of a a a playbook for a more I don't know greater viscosity, more tensil strength response than what is happening now. First of all, in every every every time you see the rise of an authoritarian in any country, one of the first thing that happens is that the opposition splinters um because the rules of politics are have changed sometimes in ways that people don't initially understand and the whatever was the previous opposition doesn't understand the new rules and they fight with each other and they split into different parties. Look, a country like Iran, the political opposition for you know had dozens of parties who fought with each other and you know for years. Russia same story. Venezuela until recently also the same story. Um, you know, Hungary, the same story that that, you know, you had the rise of Orban and in response, you know, you had the left and the and the and the, you know, and the and the Greens and others, you know, fighting one another, you know, rather than rather than unifying or finding a way to to to to push back against against the damage that he was doing. So, this is this is this is normal. Um, and so some of that some of what we're seeing is the same. I mean, I heard this kind of frustration in Poland in 2016 and 17, the same thing. you know, the opposition is powerless. They can't fight back. So on one of the things that needs to happen is for people to understand the rules are different that the things that divided us before can't divide us now. Um you know the this there was a scene just was it yesterday or the day before of you know Palestinian activists attacking AOC at one of her events. I mean this is a kind of own goalies turn on allies and that's kind of you know that that that's something that has to be avoided. But also I think um the the Democrats need to look for what are the stories, what are the narratives um what are the what are the um you know what are they going to find that unifies not only them and not only brings together different kinds of Democrats but also reaches people who voted for Trump or people who stayed home um you know people people in the rest of the country and actually one of the things that might eventually work once people once it begins to sink in is the is the idea that I spoke about before this idea of um corruption and it's linked to your well-being, you know, and and you hear you're already hearing some of it, you know, when when AOC and Bernie Sanders talk about oligarchy. Um when um I think it's Elizabeth Warren who keeps saying, you know, they're getting rich and you're not, you know, and you're you're losing your you're going to lose your healthcare. um beginning to make those links between what people are seeing and hearing, you know, even if vaguely about Trump and the people around him and how it affects people. I mean, the same is true actually for um for the decline in the justice system is that, you know, when you talk to people about judicial independence, that can be a little bit too theoretical. When you begin to say, you know, look, these are, you know, you you've had these, you know, illegal deportations of people who are in this country legally. you've had, you know, even US citizens being detained at the border. Um there, you know, this this is a new, you know, a new system and eventually it could be coming for you. And when you when you link together, uh people's personal experiences and the and the and the political, you know, mess that they see around them. I mean, I think then you begin to get powerful narratives that move people. Um, I mean I there's a, you know, there are probably, you know, names and tactics I could I could I could, you know, that that might work here that you've seen in other countries, but I think the most important thing is for not just Democrats, but for Democrats and for company bosses and for um heads of law firms and for um, you know, you know, disappointed and distressed Republicans to begin to coalesce on a definition of what's wrong that that can be made clear to people and to begin to offer an alternative. We'll be right back after the break. [Music] Support for Propy comes from ShipStation. What if you never had to worry about shipping and fulfillment for your business ever again? With ShipStation, you can save hours and money every month by shipping from all your stores with one login, automating repetitive tasks, and finding the best rates among all the global carriers. ShipStation grows with your business no matter how big it gets. You can ship products to your customers with discounts up to 88% off UPS, DHL Express, and USPS rates and up to 90% off FedEx rates. You can also seamlessly integrate with the services and selling channels you already use. You can deliver a better customer experience with industryleading scalable features that help ensure accuracy and get shipments out the door faster. Over 130,000 companies have grown their e-commerce businesses with ShipStation. And 98% of companies that stick with ShipStation for a year become customers for life. Calm the chaos of order fulfillment with the shipping software that delivers. Switch to Shipstation today. Go to shipstation.com and use code profg to sign up for your free trial. That's shipstation.com. Code [Music] ProfG. Support for the show comes from Virgin Atlantic. Let's talk about flying. I do it. You do it. We all do it. But it really comes down to how we do it. When you fly Virgin Atlantic, they make it a memorable trip right from the moment you check in. On board, you'll find everything you need to relax, recharge, or carry on working. Live flat, private suites, fast Wi-Fi, hours of entertainment, delicious dining, and warm, welcoming service that's designed around you. Check out virginatlantic.com for your next trip to London and beyond, and see for yourself how traveling for business can always be a pleasure. We're back with more from Ann Applebomb. I just want to move to the the business of Ann Applebomb. My my sense is you're having this extraordinary moment and I imagine it's been a lot of you know success is I love the statement after working my ass off for 30 years I'm an overnight success. I see you everywhere and and by the way I think it's wonderful. What how are you I don't want to say taking advantage of but how do you think about this moment for you and how do you try and get your message out there? Are you trying to write more get better at social media trying to hire people to manage your social media? Tell me about like Ann Applebomb Inc. How do you manage to scale your message such that it can have as much impact as it can given this quite frankly this moment in time where your work has real resonance? So I'm not sure that I think about myself as as a business that needs to be managed um but um and for for better for worse I mean it's I I think it is you can it's fair to say that I have changed some of what I do. So I I did spend I don't know the 90s and 2000s and into the 2010s a lot of what I was doing was writing history books. You know I wrote histories of the Soviet gulag, the Ukrainian famine and so on. Um and it was really for me that there was a big turning point in 2015 when first in Poland and in Hungary and then in the UK and the US I I saw a you know I felt I suddenly realized that I was watching a very big change. I was un there was a there was an intellectual shift going on around me. I was an an anti-communist and I knew a lot of conservatives and a lot of my friends were in the conservative world and I saw this conservative world begin to split and part of it begin to radicalize. Um and then I wrote a book about that and then I I I I wrote another short book. Um and and and you are right that I do now think more about um how to how to find ways of telling the stories that I studied and telling the um describing, you know, describing the bad ends that I know from history and and warning Americans uh not to go down those roads. And I don't know, I I I'm not sure that I do it systematically or well, but I do it through um I I talk a lot more than I used to. I mean, I do podcasts. I I didn't used to do any television partly because I didn't want to. And now I do it if you ask me if I if I have time. Um you know, I understand that there are different ways to reach people that not everybody's going to read my 500page history of the goolog. And so if I if I have to talk about what a concentration camp is, which by the way they those concentration camps in Guatemala, I mean in um El Salvador are that's what they are. And and the definition is a site that's not subject to the laws of the the country sending people to that site. Is that the right definition? A a concentration camp is a camp where people are sent who are neither prisoners of war nor necessarily convicted criminals. It's somehow outside the law. It's people who are being sentenced not for necessarily what they've done, but for who they are. Um, and that's certainly that defines some of the people who've been sent. So, so yeah, I feel obligated to to to to talk and speak more. But, um, I don't know may if there were if there were something that I could do to get the message through. I I don't come from a show business world or a or a or really a television world. Uh, you know, I I'm I'm somebody who writes books and articles. So finding figuring out how to make what I studied and what I do, how to how to make it clear and simple and to transmit it in a way that people understand. I mean that I do spend time thinking about how to do that. I guess that's the best way to put it. So we entered college the exact same year. You at Yale meet at UCLA. You're now um I think a senior fellow at John's Hopkins. Is that right? Yep. There's something called the Agora Institute there. and I'm I'm fellow there. I'm curious. Well, I'll put forward a thesis that at universities our inclinations are democrat almost democrats. Our inclinations are correct. Our hearts in the right place. We take things too far and we invite an overcorrection. How would you what role, if any, do you think universities have played in inspiring an overcorrection if that if you believe that's true? And two, what role do you think university leadership has to play in an attempt to push back on this autocracy? So when you're talking about universities there, it's it's actually a really fraught subject because the truth about what actually happens at universities and what was written about universities and what people think about universities can sometimes be quite separate. Um, and this was true both during the cancel culture moment of a few years ago. um you know and it it was very true of the Gaza protests for example uh last spring. I'll just give you an example of what I mean. I was uh I did a lecture at Northwestern University uh last year. Um and it was right at the height of the protest movement and there were a lot of protest movements there and I talked to a group of journalists um who student journalists who were who who were it was a class I I spoke to um before the lecture and I asked them to to tell me about how many people on the campus which is about 20,000 people or 22,000 people at Northwestern. How many people actually cared about these protests? What how what number did they guess? And they said, "Well, there's probably about a thousand people who care, who know about it, who follow it?" Okay. How many people have actually been to a protest? Maybe 500. You know, how many people go regularly, live in tents, you know, care about it intimately. That was certainly no more than 50 and sometimes it was just a couple dozen. Um, so out of 22,000 people, there were a few dozen who were making the news. Um you then then we started talking about the slogans that were used at the protest and these were kids. I mean they were sort of in their early 20s. They'd never done journalism before. They were editors and work they worked on the student newspaper. And one of them said to me, you know, the thing that had been most shocking for him was to learn that every time whatever was the most extreme slogan, whether it was anti-Semitic or anti-Muslim, uh, you know, whatever was the most extreme thing, if someone took a picture of that on a given day, that slogan was the one that would be in the Chicago Tribune the next morning. And so the, you know, you had, I don't know, 21,500 students on this campus who were not involved in this. You know, you had 22 25 kids who were very angry. You know, one of them made a poster and that was the news story. Um and so the the the there were there were stereotypes and um exaggerations about what students were up to and what they did uh that I think became very unfair. So I think and you know it's also become the case that because of the nature of social media and the way that news spreads you know one incident you know one crazy person at Yale or at UCLA or at wherever you know University of Colorado can do something crazy or make a statement or disrupt a lecture or post a blog or or or or write a do something that that suddenly will make him or her the focus of a kind of frenzy. you know, you know, of one kind or another. Um, and I don't think that was ever very representative of everybody's life on a university campus. And I've had kids who've been through university since then, and I know I teach a little bit, so I know um kids that age. And I mostly found them um, you know, they were they were they were wary of this kind of extreme politics, you know, on both sides. They were mostly pretty moderate. um you know most of them were you know did their homework and and you know went to their you know lacrosse matches and weren't engaged in the kind of bitter campus wars that you read about in the newspaper. Um and so I think the I think a lot of you know and then of course the campus wars became important to conservatives and to some on the left as a as a way of fighting about other things. Um and so I think I think the the campuses were really did you know it was a bad service was done to them. I mean having having said that there were plenty of university professors and in particular but also university presidents who weren't clear enough about the basic what should have been the basic rules for any university. you know, we, you know, free speech, tolerance of views, um, you know, due process for people accused of things, whether they were accused of political crimes or or or sexual assault. Um, you know, the the the the presidents and the faculty also became caught up in these various frenzies and in some cases became afraid of um, you know, they they these institutions also became afraid of becoming the subject of attack. We had a long and ugly moment that actually I think we were beginning to recover from um until uh you know until the Trump administration uh came came to office and decided that what it really wanted to do was destroy the universities altogether which I do believe is their goal. I mean I think they I think their goal is is not just about correcting some kind of lefty excesses on campus. I think they want to they they see universities much as again Orban did or or indeed almost any authoritarian did. The Chinese apparently are very interested in what's going on in the US because they see echoes in their own history. the cultural revolution. You know, they see them as places where, you know, people exchange ideas, where they they seek for truth, they try to establish facts, whether those are scientific facts or historical facts. And and and those are the kinds of people who've been taught critical thinking and who've been taught to ask questions that are a problem for a president who wants people to accept his lies. You know, he he this is a president who lies every day, several times a day. He lies about the price of gas. He lies about um you know his tariff policy. He lies about everything and he doesn't want people to question him and they they want to be their their you know their movement to be accepted and not questioned and they see universities as the source of a kind of it's not even a political opposition it's the source of intellectual and moral opposition and I think that's why they want to destroy them. So, so although there was a case for university presidents to be braver, for university faculty to to to become to be less political, and by the way, you know, keeping in mind that it was always a small percentage on any given campus, and certainly when looked at at the thousands of universities across the country, there was a certainly that you could make that case. But it seems to me that what's happening now isn't even an overcorrection. It's a it's a it's a different project. It's a much more extreme project. So last question. I've been shocked whenever I meet an actor. One of the and I talk about kids, they almost universally say I just would not want my kids to go into this industry. Would you encourage your kids to be authors uh or write for a magazine or be a historian? How do you think your industry is a good industry for young people to enter? So I don't think I I have two kids and neither of them is interested. So where, you know, I don't have to I don't I don't have to worry about it. Although um look, I I I still know a lot of really great journalists. I know people who are dedicated to investigating important stories, who write about uh crises around the world. I was just corresponding this morning with a photographer who I'm working with who's in Sudan and who's witnessing a a horrific moment in that war. There are refugees escaping into Chad. She happens to be there. She's taking pictures. I'm going to write something short. I was I was there a few weeks ago and I'm going to write something short to go with her photographs. And you know, I see that people who are, you know, who who who believe in this kind of work and who want to do good work are are still there and they have interesting careers and great lives. I mean, you don't become super wealthy and you don't necessarily become super famous. It depends on, you know, maybe you get lucky or maybe you don't. Um, but I see that the people in the industry feel they're doing something good. And so, yeah, I would recommend that people do it. Um, for the moment, we still have, um, there are still places to write for. Um, some big places, some small ones. Uh, if you're if you're interested in doing investigative journalism, if you're interested in reporting, if you like writing, um, if you want to convey ideas, if you care about ideas, if you want to be engaged in in political debate, there's there is space to do it. I mean, there is a lot of junk out there and a lot of really bad journalism. Um, and a lot of video clips that, you know, we don't all need to see. Um, but but there but there's a there's a there there's a real world and and I hope younger people join it. There's still space to do it. Anne Applebomb is a Pulitzer Prizewinning historian and staff writer at The Atlantic. She's also a senior fellow at John's Hopkins. Her books include Gulog, A History, Red Famine, Stalin's War in Ukraine, and her latest, Autocracy, Inc. She joins us from her uh home or office or home office in Washington DC. And I just love seeing people such as yourself who have gone a million miles deep on a not a fairly narrow topic, but you literally are the autocracy person, and it's just very rewarding to see the kind of recognition and influence you're having. You're forceful yet dignified and you're one of the few people that, and this is one of my many flaws, I fall in love with my own ideas and look for reasons to validate them. But whenever you say something that isn't congruent with my current thinking, I stop and I question my own beliefs. And I think that's really important. So really appreciate your good work. That is a really kind thing to say. Thank you very much. Um, you know, I'm a listener and a follower and and I look forward to hearing what you have to say in the future, too. Thanks. [Music] [Music]