talk about the notion of trust [music] in experts. >> The most important statistic to me in all of politics is do you trust government to do the right thing most [music] of the time? And through much of the 20th century, 70% of Americans said, "Yeah, I trust government to do the right thing most of the time." Now we're down to what, like 15%. [music] And the most socially important statistic is, do you trust your neighbors? Do you trust the people around you? And it used to be 60% said yes. [music] And now that's down to 30%. and 19% of millennial and Gen Z. So, people have lost faith in each other. David, where are you? >> I'm in Washington DC where my normal home is. >> There you go. So, [music] obviously a a tragic weekend and would love to just get any kind of initial reactions to the shootings both at Brown University and in Australia. >> Yeah, and I would add the murder of Rob Reiner and his wife. Um, so now we wake up to three very violent stories. On the one hand, we shouldn't overexaggerate these things. The the number of mass killings in the US in 2025 was had been remarkably low. Uh, and so it's not like we've I don't think it's fair to say we've entered a new age of violence. If you look at murder rates, they're down. You look at suicide rates, they're down. So you shouldn't ex extrapolate from these stories. Nonetheless, they are real. Something has happened, I think, since 2013. We've just entered dark world. [snorts] uh and uh dark world is distrust. It's isolation. And as you write about and talk about a lot, uh the pain of this moment is not distributed equally. People with college degrees uh live 15 years longer than people with high school degrees. They're much less likely to die of opioid. Uh they're much less likely to say they have no friends. And guys, in particular, are getting hammered. And so if you're a single male without a college degree, your rate of having an affectionate touch, how many times somebody hugs you or kisses you or just a gentle pat, large numbers of young guys go through weeks and weeks and weeks without an affectionate touch. And that may seem like a trivial thing, but a I do not think it is. I think we are mammals who require touch. uh but it's symptomatic of a whole series of maladies that are afflicting people and since 2013 we've not only seen the rise of social pain we've seen the rise of conspiracy theory and what inevitably accompanies that is anti-semitism uh and so in Monty Beach um obviously a clear case of anti-semitism and as several reminder authors have been reminding us over the last few hours when you use the phrase globalize the inifat this is what you get this is globalizing the inifat I was in Israel during the second in Nevada and it was one of the scariest times I've been. I've covered wars and done that kind of thing, but it was really scary cuz you never know what when the next bus was blown going to blow up, when the next pizzeria was going to blow up. Uh and so some people say in that just means struggle. But that holocaust when we use the word holocaust that doesn't just mean a big fire that has a specific historic meaning. Uh and so to me this is an example of globalizing the defa leads to violence in this way which is not to be against the struggle for Palestinian statethood. I'm all for that but the violent means are counterproductive. >> A couple things in there. Um one I can't help but you say you use a date since 2013 and that's about the time that social went on mobile. Have you made the same connection? Yeah, it's very hard to look at the social indicators which turns out at the same time and not think it has something to do with social media on mobile but it was also a time and tell me if you think this is connected. I have trouble seeing the straight line between that. If you look at the rise of populism both on the left and the right, it dates to about that time. And the initial populist movement was I think in Spain or Portugal called the indign. And it was a group of people arguing we do not accept your authority. And so the populist movement also happens in 2013. And was that driven by social media? I think partially, but I think partially not. Mostly not. >> I think it's a chaser effect. I think the core though the epicenter of the earthquake is a transfer a slow but elegant transfer of wealth from young to old and that economic procarity across young people is bad for men and women but it's especially hard on young men who are unduly evaluated based on their economic viability. And then you take them online where they're likely to find algorithms who will tell them it's not their fault to blame women for their romantic problems and blame immigrants for their economic problems. They become radicalized. And then you mix in polarization, access to guns, and it's this dangerous alchemy. But I would reverse engineer it at the very core, the epicenter to a transfer of wealth from young to old because old people keep voting themselves more money. Your thoughts? >> Well, I've been arguing against old people who are my base. That's my base. Old people are my base. PBS News Center, New York Times column. Uh but but we have basically taken money that should be going to young people on the way up and we've g given it to people who are dying or old on the way out. Uh and that's just a stupid way to run the country and I used to get my AP friends very upset uh with that. I I want to focus in on that the notion of procarity because I think there is procarity but I think it's a little more I I've begun to think of it in more fine-tuned ways. So young people feel that the American dream is dead and uh some in my own family and that the old model if you work hard you get ahead. Uh that just that's broken. And there are some studies that show 70% of Americans overall say the American dream is dead. So that's pretty terrible. Um, but when you look at the data, and the the blogger Noah Smith runs chart after chart about this, Millennial and Gen Z have higher wheel real wages than Boomer and Gen X at the same age. >> Uh, and they have not two different home ownership rates. And we're now in a moment where we have the highest median uh wages in American history. It's about 88,000 bucks. Uh, and so some of the economic data are not that bad and yet the feeling is bad. And so I I was talking to a CEO a couple months ago and he said, "When my team comes to me and says when a a customer says this went wrong, this is part of your product sucks." And my team says, "No, they're wrong. We've got data on this." The CEO says, "I always believe the anecdote over the data." And I think there's some virtue to that. believing the anecdote over the data or at least trying to reconcile the two. And I think one of the things that's changed is when I was getting out of college, it felt like there were like nine jobs there. You could be a teacher, a doctor, nurse, lawyer, cop, whatever. Now it feels there are a million jobs. And when I was getting out of college, there were pathways to uh the right jobs. And it was there was a clear steps you took. if you want to become a newspaper columnist, you tried to become a very junior associate editor at a small magazine and then gradually you worked your way up and that's exactly what I did. >> Uh and now I feel those pathways are gone or worse there are fewer pathways. So in a just society the there are many mountain tops and different people got to climb different mountain tops depending on their abilities or tastes. [snorts] But now we've rendered into one mountaintop. You have to get into a selective college. you have to get a job at a very small number of firms like Goldman Sachs or or whatever Bane and that's the one route and so you have millions of people trying to get into that route and so suddenly you have universities rejecting 96% and then at Goldman they have 3,000 internships every summer but 300,000 apply and so we've narrowed the range of paths upward and we've made it all chaotic and at the same time I would say we made courtship chaotic >> uh I'm ancient, [clears throat] but you know, I I wasn't in the age when back in the 50s when they pinned girlfriends in high school, but I was at the age where you asked somebody out, you dated for a certain amount of time, and you broke up. >> And that there was a structure to courtship. And that has been gone for 15 or 20 years. And so I think the procarity is often the uncertainty and the lack of clarity, the lack of order, uh, as much even though the the raw economic data show millennial and Gen Z are doing pretty well. I mean, there's so much there, I would argue. So, it's undeniable that the average middle class person is doing better and living a better life than the wealthiest person in the world 100 years ago, maybe even 50 years ago. Like, I'll take Netflix and Novacane over royalty, right? But the problem is the human brain doesn't work that way. It's where it's a comparison culture and every day 210 times a day young people have faux wealth vomited on them and it makes them feel that if I'm not in a visa at a rave or on a Gulfream I'm failing even if I'm quote unquote doing okay. And there is some data that says they're not as doing as well as their parents were at 30. And I think some of the major indicators, housing, the average age of first-time buyers is I mean the data I'll give you this the narrative that all young people are doing poorly. That's just not accurate, right? There is some data that just flies in the way of that. But I think it's the what do you call I don't know people call it a vibe session. The thing I just want to reverse to that you said that was so powerful and one of the things I admire so much about you is you're considered a conservative but I find you so compassionate is you said something I hadn't even thought about and that is the importance of touch and that we're mammals and that there are young men I've always said a lot of young men their first male role model was a prison guard >> but the idea and then I go to sex one in three men under the age of 30 hasn't had sex in the last year and 60% of households used to have a kid at 30 Now it's 27%. But I never really stopped to think about the importance of touch where mammals and just how important and restorative and healthy it is that that touch. Can you can you speak more about that? I hadn't heard that before framed that way. >> Yeah, there's a guy a scientist named Reed Monu who studies this and he studies how powerful touch is. When you look at uh our nearest animal ancestors, apes and such, they're constantly touching each other. It just has a tremendous calming effect. And I hug my wife and I hug each other many times a day and it's not a big deal. It's just like it's just something you do cuz intuitively we know it's true. But also it's a symptom of love. And one of the things, you know, I think is obvious. There's a great study called the Grant Study, a longitudinal study done at Harvard. And the founder of that or the director of that study, longtime director, a guy named George Valiant said, "After all my years, my lifetime of studying human flourishing, my answer is uh human flourishing is love full stop." And so it pays to just fill your life with a lot of love. And I mean that as love for a person, love for another person. But I also mean that as what are our most obvious loves? We usually we love our town. [snorts] Uh we love our vacation. People who are religious love God. uh and with our country. These are the obvious forms of love. Are any of these forms doing anything other than declining? The number of people in dating relationships is way down. Way down. The number of people who go to church is way down. The number of people who express patriotism, especially among the younger generations, is way down. Civic life is less rich. So, in a weird way, you could just say there's just a lot of less love in the world. We don't usually talk in those terms cuz it doesn't sound very social sciency. But I do think there's sort of it's just as simple as that. People are, you know, you want to love your profession. You want to love what you do. You want to love the people around you. You want to live at full boore. One of my heroes is a guy named St. Augustine who not pretty famous. And he says, "Give me a man in love. Give me a land a man in the desert who yearns for the pure waters. If I talk to a cold man, he just doesn't know what I'm talking about." And I do think there's wisdom and that Gustinian uh desire for artor for enthusiasm for full commitment for all the things that love entails. And just lack of that is just a horrible state to be in. >> I love the study you're talking about and that's the opening line. U happiness is love full stop. And I've been thinking a lot about I had a friend who passed away and I wasn't close with him but I was thinking about how much character one of our fraternity brothers demonstrated for him calling us raising funds finding out who has contacts at Cedars for his care. And there's this great line in the movie Magnolia and William Macy as a bartender who's lonely and he says I have loved to give but I just don't know where to put it. And one of the things that came out of that study that really struck me, you know, the number of deep and meaningful relationships is kind of the the the whole shooting match, right? I think most people would guess that. What shocked me or I think the the life hack is that being loved is great, but the happiest people find a lot of places to put their love. It's the people who love the most who are the happiest, not the people who are loved the most. And I thought that was so profound. So I guess my question would be as someone who looks at society, how do we make it easier for people to find places to put their love, is it how do we create more opportunities for people to love something or someone? >> Well, part of the problem is the self. Uh I I recently came across a study where they asked a lot of people, "How do you know when you're in love?" And they said, "I know I'm in love when I don't have to try hard socially. I know I'm in love when somebody makes me feel uh warm and appreciated. Uh and they but the theme through all the comments was I know I'm in love when I get to feel a certain way. It's not when I get to sacrifice and put their desires above myself. And we have gone in such a self-oriented culture that love is about how do you make me feel [snorts] and that's really not what love is. Uh love is is you know when you when you want someone you want to devour them but when you love someone you want to serve them and it's that and one of the things people say love is love eliminates the distinction between giving and receiving because to give to someone you love feels like as good as it as receiving. Uh and so I think we partly it's the large self. Partly young people just don't aren't dating as much anymore. And I'm not sure I can explain that one, but one of the most educational experiences I had in my life was falling in love with a woman when I was 18. Uh, and I remember it was May 5th, 1979. We were at a campfire with friends and she slipped her hand into mine and it was one of the happiest moments of my life. I'll remember it forever. And then I I that year I didn't go to the camp I just mentioned. I stayed home and worked as a janitor uh so I could hang go to her. She worked as a waitress. I'd go to her restaurant every lunchtime just to hang around her. Uh and then she came transferred to my college and dumped me. But uh and I learned about the suffering too. But that all that experience of falling in love and feeling your heart expand in a way you never imagined it could >> and then going through the rigors of a relationship and then going through the pain you experience when somebody dumps you. Uh that is an education. And I loved my college. I had a great experience to change my life. But I would trade my college education for that romantic education. And it taught me to put your heart at the center of your life, not your head. >> Yeah. The thing there, the the only thing I would I went through a very similar experience. I bloomed late. And having someone that you you think is impressive, love you, love you is just so I I feel like if I could give anyone that gift when they're young, this builds so much confidence. And I went through a similar thing. Uh she also broke up with me. But I think the real learning is it might take a month, a week, maybe, you know, even a year, but then you're fine and you realize that you can get through these things. And I worry that a lot of young men choose a frictionless, risk-free version of relationships and never develop the scar tissue or the calluses or the confidence to know if I apply for a job I'm not qualified for or apply to a college I'm not I'm not I don't have the credentials or approach a stranger and express romantic interest who might be perceived out of my way class that if it doesn't work I'm going to be fine. Isn't some of it that we're trying to create and I think it's through over parenting quite frankly concierge parenting that we're creating a generation of people and encouraging them not to take any real risks. >> Uh well I certainly the college students I teach certainly often believe that if uh I have one failure then my life is derailed. So one false step and it's over. And I try to assure them that that's not true. Uh, and your point of getting broken up with, I remember when I got broken up with, I I went up to Water Tower Place in Chicago and bought some French cigarettes. If I was going to suffer, I wanted to suffer like Albert Kamu. Like I was I was weirdly proud of my suffering because I'd never experienced suffering like that. And I was like, "Wow, I'm a deep guy. I'm so proud." But it and but I got over it. It took years, frankly. Uh, but I got over it. Uh there's a song on country music these days about a young woman who uh is is gets crushed by her boyfriend broken up. She survives it and then he calls her later and wants to get back together. And the song is called What Doesn't Kill You Calls You 6 Months Later. And I think that's a perfect country music song. [laughter] >> And uh and so you you do learn you can get over it. But I think the risk thing is the crucial thing. And I don't know if it's over parenting or what, but I think the decline in dating it it's a you you don't have to take a risk with a phone. It's always there for you. And asking a girl out is an enormous risk. Falling in love is an enormous risk. And I think there is some sort of social risk aversion that has settled as we've come to be more distrustful. And then the second thing that's happened is uh professionalization has become an urgent carve out. Uh, and so my students would always tell me, "I don't have time to date. I'm just too busy." And I would tell them, "You're doing it wrong. One of, you know, the data is pretty clear that the quality of your marriage is more important than the quality of your career in determining your happiness." And so, you should focus on that. And I once had a student tell me, you know, marriage is a box that'll come in the mail when I'm 35. And I was like, wrong. It's it's very important to learn how to do relations. I don't advise getting married in college. The statistics show you should wait till 25. Um, but uh it's really helps to have had a whole repertoire of relationships so you're able to be a good partner to somebody and it takes practice just like anything else and it takes skill building. I the uh the same woman who told me that uh marriage will came come in the mail uh she said you know I've had four boyfriends in my life and they all ghosted me at the end. Not a single one of them had the decency to call her up and have that conversation. And I think it's because in part nobody had taught them they had to do that. You a decent person has a breakup conversation. And as important, no one had taught them that it's possible to break up with someone without crushing their heart at least more than is necessary. Uh and I think these are basic social skills that we have not passed on. And they're skills like how to ask for an offer for forgiveness. uh how to listen really well to somebody, how to be a great conversationalist. Uh and somehow social skills are are um neglected. >> I've seen some recent studies trying to understand why young people are so anxious and depressed. And a lot of it is uh they claim they have no purpose. And I sort of for the first time kind of made that connection to what you were just saying that the ability to love others or love something. And as I think about I think I think of my purpose is I want to raise patriotic loving men. [clears throat] And what that means is my purpose is I just don't get as much back from my boys as they get from me. And I know that sounds terrible, but that's my purpose. [laughter] I And whether your purpose might be civil rights, but showing up to protests, raising money, getting all sorts of feedback or negative feedback or getting attacked online, it's because it's your purpose. You're going to give more than you're going to get. And I mean it can you do you make that connection between purpose that young people I don't and I don't know how we inculcate this or teach them that but the whole point of parenting in my view or of purpose is you decide to just give more than you're going to get from this thing or this person. I encounter this all the time. I I had a student who was a great student. I gave him his only A minus at Yale. Uh, and he was such a good investor that while he was in college, he had a Bloomberg terminal on his dorm room desk. He worked for a firm and they gave him a terminal which was an expensive thing. And he got out and he got and he was an arrogant bro kind of guy and wonderful guy. I really liked him. And he got out and he got fired and he called me and his voice was utterly different uh because he had done what he thought. And when he was fired from that job, he didn't really know what his tilos was. And I think he never knew. I think he just was going along with the system, what the system told him to want. And the niche has a saying, he who has a why to live or can endure anyhow. Uh and if you know why you're put on this earth, you can endure the setbacks. But if you don't know your wise, um then the setbacks are really devastating. Uh and I found that many young people are what they call insecure overachievers. they uh have no foundation. They haven't discovered their sense of purpose. So, they build very impressive towers up on top, but their foundation is rotten and eventually the towers are going to crumble. [snorts] Uh and so, I began teaching courses really on how to find a sense of purpose. And the core theory of one of those courses was that every young person, not every everyone, but most are going to make four fundamental commitments in the course of their 20s or maybe up to 35 or 40. a commitment to a vocation with a career, a commitment to a philosophy or faith, a worldview they can believe in and hang their guide their life by. Um, [snorts] some kind of family uh and to a community and the quality of your life will be determined by the quality of the commitments you make and how you live up to those commitments. And a commitment is falling in love with something and then building a structure of behavior around it for when love falters. So Jews love their God, but they keep kosher just in case. Keep them on the straight and narrow. I love my wife, but we have a a legal and religious marital bond between us. So that's that's a structure of behavior for for those moments when love falters. And that act of commitment making is a bit countercultural today because we live in a culture that values autonomy a lot of freedom of choice. Keep my options open. Keep my options open. And commitment is about closing options. But in my view, there there are two kinds of freedom. the freedom of no restraint, which is the way a lot of people define freedom now. But another kind of freedom is the freedom to do hard things. So if I want the freedom to play the piano, I have to chain myself down to the piano bench and practice. And in that sense, sometimes it's your chains to set you free. [music] But the these are countercultural concepts these days. Support for the show comes from LinkedIn. If you've ever hired for your small business, you know how important it is to [music] find the right person. That's why LinkedIn Jobs is stepping things up with their new AI assistant. So, you can feel confident you're finding top talent that you can't find anywhere else. And those great candidates you're looking for are already on LinkedIn. In fact, according to their data, employees hired through LinkedIn are 30% more likely [music] to stick around for at least a year compared to those hired through the leading competitor. That's a big deal when every hire counts. [music] With LinkedIn Jobs AI assistant, you can skip confusing steps and recruiting jargon. It filters through applicants based on criteria you've set for your role and surfaces only the best matches so you're not stuck sorting through a mountain of résumés. LinkedIn Jobs AI assistant can even suggest 25 great fit candidates daily [music] so you can invite them to apply and keep things moving. Hire right the first time. Post your job for free at linkedin.com/prof. [music] Then promote it to use LinkedIn jobs new AI assistant making it easier and faster to find top candidates. That's linkedin.com/prof [music] to post your job for free. Terms and conditions apply. Support for the show comes from Ripling. Finance teams can waste weeks chasing receipts, [music] reconciling spreadsheets, and fixing errors across a slew of disconnected spend tools. And it's what Ripling is here to fix, [music] helping you keep your spend under control without the busy work of clunky finance software. Ripling is the unified platform for global HR, payroll, IT, and finance. They've helped millions replace their mess of cobble together tools with one system designed to give leaders clarity, speed, and control. [music] By uniting employees, teams, and departments in one system, Ripling removes the bottlenecks, busy [music] work, and silos your software can create. Automated perfectly in sync, and seriously simple [music] to use. With Ripling, you can run your entire HR, IT, and finance operations as one, or pick [music] and choose the products that best fill in the gaps in your software stack. And right now, you can get [music] 6 months free when you go to rippling.com/propg. Learn more at ripp png.com/provg. [music] That's rippling.com/provg for 6 months free. Terms and conditions apply. [music] So there's no way to make this altitude change elegantly. But let's talk about Trump. Um so consumer sentiment is worse now than its lowest uh point in the Biden administration. Uh how do you view economic anxiety as as part of this political crisis? Do you think that um you write about authoritarian figures that they create their own realities akin to performance artists? What try and how do you think people will look back on this moment in terms of what it means for broader society? Well, in terms I think I think we're just in a moment of extreme anxiety. Uh and and that feeds in over negative economic sentiment even when I think econ if you look at the University of Michigan consumer data in information consumer sentiment is through the floor. And what's interesting to me is that um 20% of Republicans think Donald Trump is responsible. Uh and that's bad news for Donald Trump. My colleague at the New York Times, EJ Dion, had a piece where he estimated that somewhere between 15 and 25% of Trump voters have changed their mind about him. Uh, and that's good news for me cuz I do I've maintained that all voters are reasonable >> and that suggests a lot of Republicans are are walking away from Trump. I think it's a little too early. Some of the people are out over their skis in thinking the Trump presidency is is in permanent decline. I think he's holding around 40% approval, 42, which is his is his historic norm. But we are in a moment where um people are prepared for the worst [snorts] uh quick to see the worst, I would say, high threat perception and then quick to blame the elites and Donald Trump is now being seen a little more as one of the elites. >> You said you could measure authoritarianism by how high the price is to oppose it. Uh does the fact that institutions and voters are it seem reticent or actually less reticent? It seems like they're more willing to push back. Does this reflect it feels like and I I don't know if it's confirm or you know I don't know what which bias it is that I'm I'm imposing here but it does feel like this is a moment that there's been a bit of a pivot or that the dam is beginning to burst in terms of Trump's ability to hold this coalition together. Your thoughts? >> It's clearly fraying. I mean, there's just been a lot of negative news for Trump in the last time. The the drop in his polls, especially the drop in his polls on economics, drop in his polls on immigration, the setback in all the different political races that have been held over the last year, the Indiana legislature beginning to rebel. Uh I do think and then even within the Senate uh some of the attacks on on or in the House on Speaker Johnson for basically disarming the the Senate and the House both unilaterally disarmed. One of the things I was taught in political science class is that people go into politics because they want power. But I've learned in as a journalist people don't want power. Even politicians don't want power. They're happy to give away power if they can keep their jobs. And so they give power to the agencies. They give power to the president and they give power to the party leaders. So Congress is run by four people. The speaker, the majority leader, the minority leader and the the the Senate and House minority leaders. Uh and so they run the place and all most other people are basically powerless, which is why so many people leave. Um and but are they going to be when we begin to see mainstream House members bucking the president on important issues, then I'll believe his coalition is fracturing. Now I think it's fraying around the edges but not really fracturing. [snorts] >> Curious what you think about so trust in media and government all-time lows. Talk about the concepts more generally of you know as it relates to media or government or however else you want to explain these constructs or these themes. Talk about the notion of trust and experts. >> Yeah. Well trust is faith that you will do what you ought to do. And so it's a faith. It's a form of faith because it's I'm anticipating the future and I have faith in you. uh and it and it faith it's a moral kind of faith that you will do what you ought to do and the ought is uh relies on the fact that we have a shared moral sense that we agree what you ought to do. It also requires that we have uh shared norms of how to be considerate to each other. That if two lanes are emerging in the highway, the right lane is going to go then the left lane, the right lane and then the left lane. And if you bump in line and cut, I'm going to honk cuz you you uh you violated the norm. And so over the last decades, uh that sense of shared faith and shared moral order and shared moral norms has deteriorated. And the most dis the most important statistic to me in all of politics is do you trust government to do the right thing most of the time? And through much of the 20th century 70% of Americans said yeah I trust government to do the right thing most of the time. Now we're down to what like 15%. And the most socially important statistic is do you trust your neighbors? Do you trust the people around you? And it used to be 60% said yes. And now that's down to 30% and 19% of millennial and Gen Z. So people have lost faith in each other. And I I've been persuaded by Robert Putnham at Harvard that when you lose faith, it's usually wellounded. When you are distrustful, it's usually because people have been untrustworthy to you. And I just think there's it's so it's in a weird way, trust is the moral barometer of society. And when people betray you, uh, then you get distressful. And one of the dumbest things Donald Trump is doing right now is, uh, going to people at rallies and saying, "You don't need 32 dolls. You can get by with two dolls." That just, um, makes people feel like he's flippant and he doesn't sympathize. And if there's one thing Americans want right now, it's to be seen by their leaders. And when they go to the supermarket and they buy like a medium amount and they walk out of there with $179 bill and he says buy two dolls there people are going to feel unseen. And that's part of uh what's happened here. And and once you feel unseen then you uh get more distrustful cuz we we evolved to be surrounded by 150 other people who saw us all the time. And when you get more distrustful you're less likely to trust others and less people will less likely to be trustworthy to you. And so trust is about spirals. You have a spir a death spiral of distrust feeding into distrust feeding into distrust. Or positively you can have the death upward spiral of people who behave trustingly find that people are trustworthy so they trust them more. So their relationships improve and they have more trust and more trust. And I have found in my life I don't know you that I always lead with trust. I I exaggeratedly trust people. And often that burns me. Not often, but sometimes it burns me. I get socially betrayed. I get financially betrayed. Well, whatever. But I think on balance, if you lead with trust, most of the time people will behave in trustworthy ways. But you have to lead with trust in the first instance. And a lot of people are just too burned by life to do that. I would argue that the culprit around the erosion in trust and faith in our institutions is that we have attached a profit motive to algorithms who figured out a way to get us to mistrust each other. That we're actually not that divided, but we have the S&amp;P 40% of the S&amp;P has a vested interest in dividing us. I mean, I go online, I'll go online, I'll read the comments and you know, everyone has addictions. I'm convinced everyone has a certain amount of addiction. I have two addictions. One is to money and one is to the affirmation of strangers, which is just stupid at my age. But I'll go on YouTube and people will say really aggressive mean things about both of us. Uh and the reason why and and then I'll find that half of them, especially the really vile ones, are dogm 312 with three followers. It's a bot meant to create engagement or from someone who sees a vested intern or national interest in dividing America, whatever it might be. But essentially, we've created porest platforms and an algorithm and attached a profit incentive that's gotten so big it may be the dominant force in our economy that has an sees an inverse correlation between trust and profitability. Your thoughts? >> I think that's part of it, but the trust numbers really began to go south about 30 years ago. The the federal trust numbers began to go south in the 70s. Uh that do you trust government, but the social trust began to go 30 years ago. So I I think that's a big part of it. Uh but I think it's mostly it's social disconnection. Uh it's shrinking family size. It's shrinking friendship circles. Uh etc. etc. But I'm sort of interested by the fact that you go on and look at the reaction to you cuz I am I don't know. I'm must be psychologically weaker than you. I avoid that cuz it it's too psychologically damaging. I can't take it. >> It means you're stronger. I I'm the I'm the heroin addict. It's like just my last hit. Now, I go on and I look at them and I I I try to stop at a certain point, but I think yours is a much healthier approach and a much more confident approach. Yeah. I go on and and look at these things and it takes me out of my head and I lack presence around my family, the people who I should care about. But your data is is is hard to argue with. Do you think it's I mean, it's a variety of things. You talk a lot about this when I when I see on television. Lack of church attendance, lack of so Well, let me let me let's move to solutions. one for one idea I I love and I'm curious. I would love to see mandatory national service. Your thoughts? >> 100%. I mean, it's astounding to me that uh it uh doesn't, you know, it's not there because all you have to do is mention if you're talking to a group of people and you mention the phrase national service, you get applause, spontaneous applause. And I think we all have a sense we would be better off. A people have a sense of purpose if they got experienced the sensation of giving. B, it would be great if somebody from Berkeley, California mets had to room with somebody from Birmingham, Alabama. It would just be fantastic. Uh, I actually in 2017, I la I launched a nonprofit exactly on this subject on the idea that social distrust was underlying a lot of the problems in our society. And so the project the project is called Weave, the social fabric project. And we just go to towns and we say, "Who's trusted here?" And people list names, people in the neighborhood. Uh it could be some some of the people have are just uh the sort of the people in the neighborhood who spontaneously organize things. Uh I we met somebody who said, "I practice aggressive friendship." And she's the lady on the black who has the July 4th parties. She's the lady on the black hose has New Year's Eve parties. So everyone looks to her and they know that she's a community hub. Some people are just nonprofit leaders. Uh, so the there, you know, they run the community organization. They run the homeless organization. I was in Watts and I ran into an organization called Sisters of Watts and it was just like a bunch of moms and they did whatever the neighborhood needed. So if the kids were going home hungry, they had backpacks filled with food to send them home with. They cleaned up the the empty lots. They gave showers to the homeless. They just did what the community needed. And I found that whatever town you go into or whatever neighborhood you go into and if you say who's trusted here, you'll get a list of names and everybody they're everywhere these and we call them weavers cuz they're weaving communities together. They are the people who build trust and trust travels at the at the speed of relationship. Uh and that's slow. Uh but if you can shift norms, you can really produce big change all at once. So in the '7s we shifted norms around littering and it used to be perfectly fine to litter and then it was not. Then we shifted norms about smoking. The me too movement shifted norms about sexual abuse and harassment and you can shift norms. And so what we've does is we give financial support to weavers so they'll be more effective and we we give them access to each other. We tell give them chances to tell their stories on media and then we bring them together. Uh and the goal is to create more people's and identity is really powerful. Uh if people say, you know, I'm I'm going to be a little more like those people. A culture changes when a small group of people find a better way to live and the rest of us copy. And so I I've spent the last seven or eight years around the most beautiful people in America. And it's kept my mood up when politics is trying to destroy it. Uh and if we could shift norms around that kind of behavior. Just one final story. We ran into a lady in Florida and she was helping kids across the street after elementary school one in the afternoon and we asked her, "Do you have time to volunteer in your neighborhood?" And she said, "Nope, I have no time." And she said, we said, "Well, are you getting paid to do this?" And she said, "No, but I help the kids cross the street after school cuz it'll be safer for them." Uh, and then we said, "What do you do the rest of the day?" And she said, "Well, on Thursdays I take food to the hospital so the patients love some nicer food to eat." And we said, "Do you have time to volunteer in your neighborhood?" and she said, "No, I have no time." And she didn't see this as volunteering. She just saw it as what neighbors do. And if we could shift the norm so people redefine what a neighbor is, then suddenly you see a lot more trust in society. And it has to start at the ground up, but it also has to happen to the top down. It's really hard to build trust to the ground up when somebody in the White House is trying to destroy it every day from the top down. One of the I learn a lot from you and I like that you challenge my thinking because you have argued against a purely material explanation for our political crisis that throwing money at people isn't the solve and that there are moral, relational um and spiritual issues at hand here. What do you think that progressives uh including myself misunderstand about economic redistribution that could substitute uh or that it's not a good substitute for cultural repair? Yeah. One of the differences between liberals and conservatives is liberals liberalism grew up in power. Like I think modern liberalism grew up in the New Deal when there was levers of power that Democrats controlled that they could advance their agenda. Conservatism more or less grew up out of power. And so when I was a young conservative uh we had neck ties and some conservatives wore Adam Smith neck ties, some were St. Augustine, some were Edund Burke, but the load stars of being conservative was philosophical and it was more it was out of power. It was a group in through the 60s until Ronald Reagan was in exile. And so I found it in those days, things have all changed now, of course, as a more conservatism was more philosophically oriented and progressivism was more programmatical and more reliant on planning and econom economics. And if you were in government, then it's natural to think, well, what I what do I have in government that I can use to make society better? I've got money. uh and that under that fed into what really was descending from Marxism and I think a lot of people are influenced by Marx including me who are not Marxists but Marx was really about economic and material determinism that material conditions determine consciousness and as a conservative I think consciousness has a large influence on material conditions or at least the ar the causal arrow goes both ways and so it was very easy both in the great society uh and in the years to believe if we just throw money at a problem then that'll go a long way to solving it. And that has failed in my view in the school system. We've thrown a lot increasingly more money at schools and scores are dropping rapidly. Uh and it's especially in efforts to create social mobility. If you give a for poor family money, they're better off. So, I'm for it. They can buy more um groceries or whatever else they need. But what you were hoping when you gave a poor family basic income or whatever was that their long-term uh outcomes would be different, that they'd have higher high school graduation rates, they had higher incomes later on. Uh and that's not true. That doesn't happen. And that's been I just saw another study finding with the same finding today because if you come from a poor family and have parents with an extremely strong work ethic, you're probably going to do okay. Uh and it's that work ethic that is necessary along with some resources. So I I think it and I think a lot of people don't want to mention that work ethic because it seems like you're blaming the poor, you're blaming the victim here. Uh but the people who are poor are completely aware of how important a work ethic is and they everyone has complexities in their life to explain their circumstances. But uh uh I do think it's it's possible to talk about the things like work ethic, self-control without saying oh you people you poor people are bad which is certainly not true. [music] Support for the show comes from Vanguard. To all the financial adviserss listening, let's talk about bonds for [music] a minute. Capturing value and fixed income is not easy. Bond markets are massive, murky, and let's be real, lots of firms throw [music] a couple flashy funds your way and call it a day. But not Vanguard. Vanguard bonds are institutional quality. Institutional quality isn't a tagline. It's a commitment to your clients. It means top grade products across the board. The lineup includes over 80 bond funds. They're actively managed by a 200 person global squad of sector specialists, analysts, and traders. [music] Lots of firms love to highlight their star portfolio managers. Like, it's all about that one brilliant mind making the magic happen. Vanguard's philosophy is a little different. They believe the best active strategy shouldn't be locked away with one person. They should be shared across the team. That way, every client benefits from the collective brain power, not just one individual's take. [music] So, if you're looking to give your clients consistent results year in and year out, go [music] see the record for yourself at vanguard.com/audio. That's vanguard.com/audio. All investing is subject to risk. Vanguard Marketing Corporation distributor. [music] Support for the show comes from Vanta. As a founder, you're moving fast toward product market fit, your next round, or your first big enterprise deal. But with AI accelerating how quickly startups build and ship, your security expectations are higher earlier than ever. Getting security and compliance right can unlock growth or stall it if you wait too long. Vanta is a trust management platform that helps businesses automate security and compliance with deep integrations and automated workflows [music] built for fastmoving teams. So whether you're a startup tackling your first SOCK 2 or ISO 2701 or an enterprise [music] managing vendor risk, Mant's trust management platform makes it quicker, easier, and more scalable. [music] The results. According to an IDC study, Vant customers slash over $500,000 a year in costs. [music] Establishing trust isn't optional. Vanta makes it automatic. Go to vanta.com/provch [music] to save $1,000 today through the Vant for startups program and join over 10,000 ambitious companies already scaling with Vanta. [music] That's venta.com/profg to save $1,000 for a limited time. [music] The term I keep hearing and it's become almost a badge of honor. People are consistently saying consistently saying I'm politically homeless. And there's different levels of homelessness, right? There's people who don't have a static address. They're qualified as homeless. There's people live in their car and there's people, you know, living under a bridge. I think of David Brooks as a guy living under a bridge. Like, I can't imagine a more politically homeless person right now. the way you meld conservative ideology like money doesn't fix the problem, it's values and at the same time you talk about the importance of touch among young men. I mean you really are sort of an island of one or let me put let me ask you this. Who do who in the Republican or the Democratic party or where do you find a home in terms of our leadership? Who do you think I'm just speak who does David Brooks want to be president? Who are you impressed by? >> Yeah. Uh well, first just weren't my home. Uh you know, I I'm I think I'm pretty consistent. I'm now I'm a person of faith, but until my 50s, I had no faith. But I did read the Bible. And the idea that the the strong should serve the weak and the rich should serve the poor was pretty squarely in the center of the both Old and New Testament. And so that seemed like a good value to embrace. Uh and then I um uh then my one of my heroes is Edund Burke. Uh and the key phrase for Burke is epistemological modesty. Uh that the world is really complicated and you should be very humble about what you think you can know. [snorts] And so you should do change but you should do it cautiously and incremental. You should perform on society, Burke wrote, the way you would perform surgery on your father very carefully. And I think a lot of the planning that progressives did and the plan big projects that the progressives did over the course of the 20th century, a lot of them just backfired because no one is smart enough to to ma navigate complex change. And then my third hero is Alexander Hamilton who's a Puerto Rican hiphop star from New York City. Uh now Hamilton uh there are three traditions in American life even though we only have two parties. One of them is a progressive tradition believes in using government to enhance equality. very legitimate tradition. The other is a more libertarian tradition that believes in uh reducing government to enhance freedom. And then historically we've had a third tradition which starts with Alexander Hamilton. It goes up through Henry Clay and Daniel Webster and the Wig Party uh with the American system. And then it goes up through Abraham Lincoln who was a wig who who gave more speeches on banking than he did about slavery in the course of his career. And then it goes up to the Roosevelt and then it goes up and probably dies with John McCain at least the first McCain race of 2000 and would include the Rudy Giuliani version the two the 2000 version of Rudy Giuliani not the contemporary version and that's that tradition believes in limited but energetic government to enhance social mobility. As Hamilton or Lincoln would have said it's about creating a world in which poor boys and girls can rise and succeed. If we don't have social mobility, if we divide into a class structure, then that's curtains. And so the way you do that is you use government in limited but energetic ways to help people become good capitalists uh or good whatever they want to be. And that's good human capital policies, that's good education policies, that's job training, that's earned income tax credit, that's baby bonds, whatever to help people rise and succeed. And to me, my tradition, the wig tradition, is a legitimate tradition in American life. It just happens to have no political uh partisan home. But I I I think I see bits of it on the the moderate side of the Democratic party, which is where I now consider myself. I'm just watching, for example, Rahm Emanuel begin his presidential campaign, and some people think Rahm is, you know, he's he's the old guard. He doesn't have a chance. And maybe that's true. I think he's very realistic about what his chances are. But he is talking about the American dream and he is talking about education. And the way Democrats have walked away from that issue is astounding to me. Democrats like Bill Clinton and Barack Obama wanted education reform. And now the Democrats Kla Harris basically do not have an education plank in her platform cuz she didn't I don't know. I don't know. She didn't care. She thought it would be divisive for the party. And the problem with that is right now Republicans are kicking Democrats asses on education. The best education states, as has been written about a lot, are Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee, uh, Florida, Georgia, they're those are the states where the gains are being made. And one statistic should upset every Californian. That in California, 28% of black kids are reading at grade level. 28%. In Mississippi, a much poorer state, 58% of black kids are reading at grade level. So, what's the hell's going on? California. uh and somehow so my party would if it existed would care a lot about that. So I used to think the best way to predict the future was to make it which is sort of this ego-driven actionorientation like Tarzan uh trope but I now think it's the best way to predict the future is to look at incentives and do you believe that so I think as a percentage of of GDP generally speaking across the uh across the west especially in Europe we've seen social service spending go up and and at some point the incentives are quite frankly not to take risks, not to work. Do you think that part of the failure of progressives is that we've uh in an attempt to grab social virtue and show empathy for our brothers and our sisters that we've created an incentive system that creates a smaller tax base and slowly but surely inspires this downward spiral? >> Yeah, I guess I would uh I do believe obviously in the power of incentives, but again, we look at issues somewhat differently. It's interesting because I think you and I agree on a lot but we we think differently and so I think what matters is your intrinsic desires and ext incentives to me feel like exttrinsic desires like a performance pay plan sounds like an exttrinsic desire and I think one of the things the research shows if you pay kids to read they'll begin to regard reading as work uh and do less of it and I think this is even true among you know bankers that some of the performance pay programs that they thought would boost productivity didn't really boo boost productivity and I would say what uh what really makes people work hard is to get back to our original subject is doing the thing they love to do doing the thing they are wired to do uh I read this biography of Walt Disney recently and when he was making Snow White the first fulllength feature animated movie he he hired artists and art historians to come to Disney studios and teach his draw his cartoonists to draw like Michelangelo and Rambr runs and people like that. And he he worked on this movie three years before even drawing this first cell and it was hour upon hour, seven days a week of doing the voices. What should the look of the movie be? Uh what do we do with with Grumpy? You know, and and that three years of prep work bringing in he brought in um I think Franklidd Wright to come to the studio to talk to the artists about lines. And it was it made no economic sense to do all this stuff, but he did it because he he just wanted to do the thing he wanted to do. He loved drawing and he wanted to do the great project and it made no economic sense. But he was totally driven and frankly it economically eventually paid off. But so I think people will become entrepreneurs when it seems challenging and cool to be entrepreneurs. I think I again I I gravitate a little more to the um to the incentive uh to the cultural piece than to the incentive piece. I don't know if you think I'm wrong about that. >> I just grew up in an environment where I you know not having money then being very focused on econ economic security teaching at a business school being an entrepreneur raising capital being on boards. I one of my real weak points is I tend to think of things through an economic lens. And also I and by the way I think the idolatry of the dollar in America I think America is basically becoming a trading platform. It's it's like losing almost any sense of self around what it means to be a society. We're just a trading platform to try and get rich is and it you know character seems to take in a distant second and character and grit are conflated with the size of your bank account. Full stop is how I see it. And so the incentives among young young people is just disproportionately towards doing whatever is required uh to find money and skipping over the purpose the relationships the things you were talking about touch that are so important and you end up maybe with some economic security but you end up economic end up anxious obese and depressed at the age of 35 with an inability to to attach to anything. Uh so yeah I do I think about incentives a lot and that is whenever I look at a situation where the behavior just I can't figure it out I go right to the economic incentives but part of that again is proximity bias. Those are the people I teach at a business school. I don't teach at the sociology department. What do you What do you make of And I hate even using his name because I I I worry I'm adding to the problem by platforming him and I think that I'm hoping like Andrew Tate is just going to fade into the distance when people realize just how how how stupid and nihilistic he is. But what do you think of Nick Fuentes and does it say anything about the Republican party or is it going to be like an Andrew Tate or Yanni Monopol forget his name was just kind of the algorithms love him for the short term and then he goes away. Do you think this is something bigger? >> Yeah, I do. I mean, I I I do think we're in a moment of of sort of nihilism which produces a right-wing reaction which is fascist comes close to fascism. And so the I think we entered a stage in the 1980s or 1990s of what we call moral relativism. The the prevailing ethos as Alan Bloom wrote in the closing of the American mind is you do you, I'll do me. We we each come up with our own values. And I think that led to a lot of people with no shared values. If you tell everybody to come up with your own values, unless your name is Aristotle, you can't do it. You come up with nothing. And so I think we entered a phase where people were just morally inarticulate and unclear on values and everything was kind of wishy-washy. Uh and they were weak. And there's a and then when you get a counterreaction to that, there's a book by a guy named Rusty Reno called uh The Return of the Strong Gods. And his argument was that after World War II people wanted weak belief because they thought strong belief produces the Nazis. And so they went for weak belief. Carl Popper open open society. Everything should be open. And so there's a reaction against that to have strong gods, strong nation, strong man, uh strong orthodox faith. Uh but with that goes the bad boy. I with that goes true fanaticism because if you're trying to trying to shock the bourgeoisi, the weaklings, the elites, the uh one of the things you wanted to do is have a strong position and you want it to be somewhat dangerous and romantic and manly. And so then you had that love for Rome, Roman Empire that spread throughout the alt-right, but it's inevitably going to lead you to conspiracy theories. It's inevitably going to lead you to racism. it's inevitably going to lead you to anti-semitism because once you adopt that logic that I'm going to have the strong belief that the establishment doesn't like then you've got to keep upping the dosage and that would that's what Nick Fuentes is he's he ups the dosage and the audience demands the higher grade of heroin they want the pure stuff and he offers some a little more pure Andrew Tate offers a little more pure pure but you can't return to the earlier dosage because it seems boring and so you have this cycle of self-radicalization with these young guys rising uh spewing the most hateful stuff and it still somehow seems cool to people I guess um because and I think the alt-right and my friends and family members who are really in that world um they say it's just getting crazier and crazier >> and you brought up a word just as we wrap up here manly and we think about this a lot and again uh this is a genuine question not a question posing as a comment But I tend to reverse almost everything, including the instability in our society, to a lack of economic and romantic opportunities for young men. And that's not to say that it's not terrible for young women, but young women don't pick up AR-15s or start revolutions typically. I mean, they're they're part of the movement, but I would argue the most unstable violent societies in the world all have the same thing in common, and that is a disproportionate number of young men who are economically or or from relationally challenged, if you will. Isn't I mean can't a lot of our problems be reverse engineered to young men feeling no sense of purpose? And again I'll use the term economic procarity. Absolutely. I agree with that a thousand%. Um and you know this is not a new problem. Dustki wrote a book notes from the underground about a nihilistic young man who feels invisible to society and draws the right conclusion that if society >> started World War I. >> Yeah. Right. >> A 19year-old. Anyway, sorry. Go Right. And and so if society hates me, I'm going to hate right back. And I think that's part of it. Just supplement that. So some I would say some of the lonely young men do the they basically want to commit suicide and take others with them when they go. That's basically what a mass killing is. Uh and so there there's that segment, but there's another segment that's reacting. I was really struck by this in a survey I saw sometime in the last couple weeks uh where they asked young people uh if you want to have a successful life, what are the most important pieces of that for you? And for Trump voting young men, the number one answer was having children. And uh the number three answer was was getting married. >> And it was 11 for progressive women. And so the >> it was didn't even make the top. >> It was it was second and third from the bottom. And so to me that this is like I think it's frankly healthier. I think the people who think marriage is not important. Listen a lot of people don't get married. A lot of people marriage is not for them. A lot of things life happens. But as I said earlier, dating and marrying uh are vastly more likely to make you happy. uh the I saw a study I think the in in the institute for family studies um that among liberal liberal women who get married 96% say they're happy and among unmarried 66%. So it doesn't mean you're going to be unhappy if you're unmarried. It's certainly not I we all have single friends who have built great lives for themselves but the odds are a little better if you if you have a life partner. >> The odds are a little better if you have a life partner. David Brooks is one of the nation's leading writers and commentators. He's an op-ed columnist for the New York Times and writer for the Atlantic. He's a best-selling author of The Second Mountain, The Road to Character, The Social Animal, and How to Know a Person. Uh David, you are you are I don't know if you feel this heat or if you can sense it. You are such a role model for me because I love how you you are just unafraid and you bring this peanut butter and chocolate that I don't see anywhere else and that is conservative values or what are thought of as conservative values wrapped in emotion, wrapped in love, wrapped in character. I don't see anyone I don't know if it was the last person to do this was W. I I just don't see anyone doing this and I think you're just such an important voice and such a great role model for young people, specifically young men. very much appreciate your time today and your voice. >> I have never been compared to a Reese's Peanut Butter Cup, but I I take it as a great honor [laughter] >> and so I thank you. And I one of the nice things about doing this show is for the next several weeks lots of people are going to come up to me and say, "Hey, I saw you on the Professor G Oh. [music] [music]