when you're to the extent you can behind closed doors talking to Democrats about how to resist here or what can be done. Um what are your thoughts? >> Well, I'm going to say something that's going to be really depressing and that is we're 5 months in to a 48month term. All right. And I understand the desire to fight to fight everything. I get it. But I also am cognizant that I got to lead a state of 10 million people through this time. And that means living my values, showing people what democratic leadership can do and will do for people so that they can point to, okay, this what they're doing in Michigan's good, and we need more people like that in the federal government. >> In today's episode, we speak with Governor Gretchen Whitmer, the 49th Governor of Michigan. We discussed with Governor Whitmer the future of the Democratic Party, the importance of bipartisan leadership and the crisis facing young men. And after the interview for the first time, we've been getting a lot of um a lot of people have reached out who are potentially candidates for president trying to gain awareness for either their programs or a run. We're going to do just a quick two or three minute no mercy, no mouse review of our conversation and the candidate. So stick around for that. What a thrill. Oh my god, what is he thinking? What does he think? So, with that, here's our conversation with Governor Whitmer. >> Governor, where does this podcast find you? >> I'm in Maine Island. >> Uh, you got to do better than that. What is that? >> Ma Island, Michigan. For those tuning in, I'm going to pull out my Michigan map. We got two peninsulas. They look like hands. It's right here in Lake Hiron. Um, between the two peninsulas. It's a spectacular place. So, we very much appreciate you uh coming on and we were trying to think about where to kick it off. Uh so, I think a lot of our listeners probably uh know of you but don't know you. Can you spend a couple minutes just on your origin story? >> Sure. You know, I am a lifetime Michigander. I've grew up in this state. Um grew up in East Lance in the home of of Michigan State University. Parents uh divorced when I was young. My mom moved to Grand Rapids. So my dad followed us even though he worked in Detroit which was 3 hours away. He did that drive for many years and I'm very close to both my folks. I lost my mom about 20 years ago to brain cancer. But you I went to Michigan State thought I was going to be a sports broadcaster and when I was there my dad encouraged me to do an internship down at the state capital which was like 8 miles from MSU's campus and it kind of changed everything for me. I fell in love with public policy. I learned about state government and um took a job with the House Democrats when I was graduated from MSU. We were at it was a weird time. We 55 555 Democrats Republicans. It was tied maybe the most productive time in legislative history in Michigan where I got to learn and see it firsthand. And then we lost the election. And so I went to law school. I'd been putting it off for a little while, practiced law for a little bit, but kind of surveyed the field. And like a lot of women in this business, it was a man who suggested I consider running for office. I'd never considered myself an office holder. So, I ran for the House, served in the House for eight, six years, the Senate for eight years, was a prosecutor, and um the Flint water crisis really kind of uh inspired me to run for governor. You know, I saw a community that was hurt so badly by decisions that were made in Lancing, our state capital, and I thought, you know, I'm gonna run and I'm going to try to fix that and fix a lot of the other problems that I see in Michigan. But I think the time that formed who I am, you know, is uh when I was 29 years old, they say the five most stressful things that happen in your life are getting married, moving your home, starting a new job, the birth of a child, and the death of a loved one. And all five of those things happened to me. My first um my first year as a state representative, I cared for my mom who died of glyobblastoma multiform, the worst kind of brain cancer you can get. She died two months after I had my first child, my daughter Sherry, who I named after my mom. And all of that was my first year in the legislature. I'd gotten married the year prior. And for some odd reason, I decided to move my home at the same time. So I did all five of those things in that one year. And I often tell people I think that's what shaped who I am. Why I don't suffer fools very well, why I'm impatient for solutions and and I don't have a lot of patience for BS. And so um I don't know. I think that's those are the most salient aspects of my life. >> So were you raised in a single parent household? >> I wasn't. You know, my my folks divorced. Um, but my mom always said my dad was a better ex-husband than he was husband cuz he was a very active parent. Um, and to this day, my dad, you know, and I are very close. I was really lucky. He he worked in Detroit, but we lived in Grand Rapids cuz my mom got remarried. And so, he drove at three hours twice a week. We saw him every weekend and once during the week as well. Um, and so, uh, you know, I it wasn't, they were both single at different points in time, but, um, I had the benefit of both parents being very active in our lives. >> And how did your mom's sickness and and sort of going through that, uh, you know, pretty up and close, how did that change your views on healthc care policy and the way you approach uh, health care for for the residents of Michigan? >> Well, you know, my mom had three things going for her. when she was diagnosed, you know, like every family with a terrible diagnosis like that, you start looking for information, right? And um they projected 4 to 6 month um time frame before she she would die of glyobblasto and you know she lived for 19 months and it was because she had a really good attitude. She had a good support system and she had good healthcare. Most people do not have all three of those things. Some people don't have any of those three things and that's why the statistics are as bad as they are. I vividly recall, you know, I had given birth to my daughter. I was exhausted, new parent, but also taking care of my mom and fighting her insurance company who wrongfully wouldn't cover some of her chemotherapy treatments and trying to arrange child care for my daughter and get to work on time. You know, all those things were on my shoulders. It was a sandwich generation experience very early in life. But I think um it really, you know, is what's driven me to try to expand access to health care for people. It's driven me to try to help people get affordable, accessible child care. You know, all these things I think um kind of center the work that I do even now as as governor and and make me not patient for um posturing. I want I want to solve problems. That's why I do this work. I care about people and I want to solve problems. >> It was specifically thinking about so in the United States we spend I think 12,000 or 13,000 per capita on healthcare for worse outcomes, right? We're more obese, die sooner, infant mortality is kind of just okay. Best healthcare in the world, I think, if you're in the top 10%, but definitely not in the bottom 90. The most of the G7 it's at $6,500 per capita. So, a decent way to describe healthcare in America for the lower 90, if you will, is expensive but bad. What like what ideas might you have if you were given a magic wand or say you were to run for president? And when what would be some of your priorities or ideas? Would it be socializing medicine? Would it be singlepayer, expanding Medicare? What big ideas would you have to solve what is a an increasingly um taxing problem for Americans? 40 40% of Americans medical and dental debt, right? And I know that you you've been working on that. Anyways, I'll stop there. What big ideas around attacking healthcare in the United States would you put forward? >> Well, that's a a massive question. >> We're going to need a bigger vote. >> We're going to Yeah, nice Jaws reference. Um, you know, I think that we provide health care in the in the worst way possible. And that means a lot of people can't afford it, so they go to the emergency room when it is at catastrophic moments in their lives. It's the most expensive way to get coverage, to get health care. It's also the the least effective way to get health care because you're so damn sick by the time you finally access it. You know, the the Medicaid expansion was a good thing. It it helped us get more people that basic level of care. And I got to tell you, you know, when I was in the Senate, I was a Senate Democratic leader. I was the leader of 12 people in a body of 38. I served with all Republicans at the time in the majority. And the governor, to his credit, saw Obamacare as a good thing for Michigan and decided to try to adopt that in Michigan, but he couldn't get his own party who was in the majority to do it. And he couldn't do it without us. So, so of course, we wanted to expand healthcare. I'm glad we did it. I've talked to so many people who saw a doctor for the first time in their lives, first time in their lives because of Medicaid expansion. So you think about how most people access health care at the most dire time in the most expensive way. It tells you everything you need to know about. We're doing it backwards in this country. Every person should have a basic level of health care and access. How do we do it is the the impossible question that everyone's been asking and hasn't been able to to rectify. But I think that's that is the that's the goal. That's the gold standard. It's it's the maybe not the gold standard, but that's the goal. And um until we have real change at the federal level, we're going to continue to try to piece it together, but we're not going to be successful. And I think that's a fundamental problem that that we're seeing across this country. We have a patchwork of health care systems that only the very few really benefit from. And >> last week, you announced uh 144 million of medical debt relief for nearly a quarter of a million Michiganers. Am I saying that correctly? Michiganders. Michiganders. >> There you go. Michiganders. Thank you for that, Governor. There you go. >> You kind of hear that. It sounds wonderful. One, curious to get your thoughts on that. And two, if you think that could work >> nationally and three, do you worry that you're creating moral hazard that people aren't consumers around health care and keeping costs down if they worry or if they believe in the back of their head that at some point that debt might be relieved? What what's your strategy there around around the medical debt relief? >> I worry about all the above, Scott. I think that um when government is supplanted by nonprofits to do the fundamentals, we're all in danger. And that's what that's we're taking advantage of an opportunity. Undo Medical Debt is a nonprofit that is matching dollars, that is buying debt, pennies on the dollar to retire it for individuals. We partnered with them. It's a good thing for a lot of people that are are are you know swamped by medical debt that it's keeping them back from from all the things that every person should be able to achieve and and want to achieve a basic good quality of life. Um it's a it's a good but it's a band-aid. It's a band-aid on a on a wound and it doesn't actually fix the underlying problem. And so I do worry about that. You know, we saw um during the Flint water crisis, philanthropy coming in to help people. I'm so grateful for philanthropy, but if government was doing what needed to be done, those philanthropic dollars could do a whole lot more for a lot more people instead of triaging a failure of a system that that is that that wasn't working. So, I do worry about what what is the what is the long-term goal here? We're giving short-term relief and that's not a bad thing, but in the long term, we haven't solved the problem. >> Is Oh, so I understand. So, while you announced 144 million in medical debt relief, it didn't cost you 144 million. You partnered with a company that went out and bought. So, it might have cost you 10 or 20 million to relieve 144 million. Do I have that right? >> Yeah. Yep. >> Got it. Okay. So, you you've you've long for a long time emphasized bipartisan leadership. How do you think and and you've been credited with overseeing a state where there is probably more by more bipartisan cooperation. How do you think you infect the rest of America with more of a sense of bipartisanship? >> I don't know. I you know I you I was raised in a in a bipartisan household. My dad was a Republican back when Republicans don't look anything like they do now. He's a Democrat. my husband for years now. My mother was a Democrat, but she was more conservative than my dad in some ways. And um you know, I I govern a state that is very purple. We go back and forth and uh we often decide you know, us and a handful of other states decide outcomes of national elections. So, I'm always cognizant of the fact that for us to have durable impact, it's got to be bipartisan. It's got to be coalition supported. Um, and I think that's it's something that's really challenging in this environment where the hyper we're hyper polarized and the rhetoric so hot and and personal and dangerous, frankly. Um, it it's even it's even tougher. But I'll say this. Um, you know, after the last election, I really went to a dark place after the election. I worked really hard to try to help Kla Harris. Um and and we came up short. We came up short, not just in Michigan, but in every single swing state. There were a lot of things that went into it, but it was really hard to take to imagine that our my state and our country willingly chose this path. Again, we've been here only now it's now it's arguably more challenging, right? And I tuned out for a while. I had to turn off the TV. I think I watched, you know, eight seasons of Dexter. Uh my my kids came in, they're like, "Are you okay?" >> Yeah. To distract me, you know. Uh and my kids were like, "Are you okay, Mom?" And but I needed to check out for a minute. But you know, one of the things you talk about that I really resonates with me and I kind of um have trying to share the similar philosophy is, you know, um checking out only makes my anxiety grow. You know, I think you say something like action absorbs anxiety. Something like that. And >> I can't create I can't. By the way, that's Dan Harris. I just I just stole it from >> Okay. Well, I I've I've said something similar, too. you know, I don't take credit for it either, but but it's very I found it to be very true in my life. If I'm checked out, um I'm worrying more. If I go to bed exhausted, I can get up the next day and get right back to work. You know, I've got to wear myself out doing good because that's that's the only way that I can navigate the moment that we're in. And so, after I came out of my Dexter uh hibernation about a month, I decided, you know, I got two years left as governor. I've got to work with this new administration. I'm going to fight them. I'm suing them. We got all our differences. But if there's opportunities to do some some good for my state, I got to take them. That's that's my duty as governor. And you know, I'm trying I'm I'm doing everything I can to to find those opportunities, but I'm I'm still not going to sherk away from from fighting where I I know I need to. >> So, let's talk a little bit about the election. you were on the shortest of short lists for uh VP if you had and I'm sure they asked for your input and you know weird you reference this one of the weird things about our electoral system is that it's a small number of counties in a small number of states including yours and somewhere in somewhere in Lancing is the man or woman who decided the election or or can decide the election right I I was shocked how badly we lost I I got this wrong and um you know it wasn't a lot votes but lost most or all the swing states. As you try to diagnose what went wrong for Democrats, what two or three things or mistakes or missed opportunities would you would you lay at the feet of the of of the campaign? >> I think we've we've gotten too far away from the people that we serve. And I don't mean I say we as a party. You know, one of the things I love about state government is I am with the people I serve all the time. I get to see the outcomes of the work that I do. And that's what I love about state government. And that's a challenge when you're talking about Washington DC. Um, you know, I'm I'm not a pundit, but I've thought a lot about, you know, the substance of your question. And I think I don't know that anyone I don't know that anyone could have tagged in when President Biden tagged out and it come up with a different result. I really don't I really think it was too late. And so I do think that it was uh you know the the president stayed in way too long. I don't think he should have run again and I think he stayed in way too long. And um we may have had a different result. We may not have but there should have been a robust primary where um new energy, new vision and new talent was tested and and ready for a tough general election. And you know what? If that had happened, maybe the Republicans would have had a different standard bearer, too, in their primary. That that's the the big thing I think about. But I also think that disconnection with people. You know, the campaign continued to say the economy is doing great. And you know what? The average person was not feeling that very clearly. Men weren't feeling that, women weren't feeling that. Um it was it was across the board um tonedeaf. And what do you think you I think most people would agree that the Democrats need to get kind of more in touch with the people they that they represent. A lot of people aren't happy with the president's policies and yet the Democratic party is even less popular. Can you be a little bit more prescriptive in terms of policies or messaging around how people start to believe again that the Democratic party does in fact represent them? >> When I, you know, jumped in the race in 2018, I got all across the state of Michigan. I wanted to ask people, "What's going on in your life? What could I do that'll make it better?" And you know, a lot of politicians just get hit the campaign trail and talk, but I like to listen. And I think it's important that politicians shut up and listen to the people they want to serve. And when you ask them, they'll tell you. So, I heard over and over again, to my surprise, frankly, uh, fix the damn roads. That's what I heard. That's what people said. Whether I was in the upper peninsula in the most rural parts of the state or I was in downtown Detroit or on the west side of the state in Grand Rapids, that was a common refrain. It wasn't the only thing people talked about. They talked about housing costs. They talked about job opportunities. They talked about school outcomes for our kids, but roads kept coming up over and over again. And um I think, you know, I assumed it was because it's a daily reminder on your commute. If you hit a pothole, it's a pretty clear uh piece of evidence that government's not getting the job done. And it can really cost you a lot of time and money on your commute or fixing your car, etc. But it was actually when I was in a children's hospital in Detroit. I was touring and I came across a woman who looked kind of friendly and I thought she wouldn't mind talking to me. But you know, it's a children's hospital. So I figured this is high stress place, parents with kids in the hospital. And I chatted with her and I said, you know, if I'm fortunate enough to get elected, what could I do that'll make your life better or m make your life a little easier? And she said, fix the damn roads. And I was shocked. I thought she'd talk about healthcare. I thought she'd talk about child care or education. I said, "All right, tell me more. Why is this the the first thing out of your mouth?" She said, "Well, I got she's a mom of, you know, four kids, one daughter, three boys. One of her boys was in the hospital. She lives in Flint. She was driving back and forth from Flint to Detroit, not a not a short commute, and she hit a pothole and it sidelined her for a whole day. It busted the rim on her car. It cost her a ton of money that she didn't have hadn't budgeted for. It was money out of child care for rent and it took her away from her child in the hospital and she was paying for child care for the other kids at home. And it was like that moment it just crystallized for me that when you talk about the roads, it's not just about an easier commute or safer commute. It's about time with your kids. It's about money for your rent or your child care. It's about people on the the margins who one little pothole can totally screw up their whole month or months of of spending. And I think that's the kind of stuff that I learn the most from when we're asking people and I I think a lot of Democrats in DC talk to each other and don't actually talk to their constituents enough. What do you think going into the midterms is on voters minds and has it changed at all since the last election? What do you think are going to be the kind of the if it feels like both the presidential election and even city elections right now looking at the mayoral race in New York? It's been about affordability. Do you think that's going to be the key issue again at the midterms? I think a lot of people feel hopeless that they can't get ahead because they can't buy a house or they can't find an apartment that they can afford. They're looking for a good paying job. You know, I think that that those fundamentals are are missing for a lot of people in this country right now and they're only getting harder to reach. Um, with tariffs, with every all the additional costs that are going to be piled on people from the bill that, you know, just passed through Congress, I think it's only going to get harder. And so, yeah, I do think that that is going to be front and center. And my hope is that my colleagues across the country and people who run as Democrats are are not just speaking to that, but have a vision about how to how to address it and and are talking to people about that who understanding what what's really holding Americans back right now. And um it's not just, you know, it's not just Democrats, it's um I think everyone in DC sometimes gets caught in that that bubble. And that's why when when people ask governors, how should we message to people? I I think governors are the best messengers cuz we're the ones on the ground with people every single day. And I would say that's true of Republican and Democratic governors cuz we know what's going on more. Now, I'm obviously a Democrat and I I think our our platform is a lot more representative of what people want and need, but uh you know, this is this is still going to be very important to voters going into next, you know, the next election. >> We'll be right back after a quick break. >> Support for the show comes from Indeed. Hiring is hard and slow, but Indeed helps make the process easy and fast. With Indeed sponsored jobs, you can stand out from the crowd and connect with the right person in record time. With sponsored jobs, your post jumps to the top of the page for your relevant candidates, so you can reach the people you want faster. And when you look at the numbers, they say it makes a big difference. According to Indeed data, sponsored jobs posted directly on Indeed have 45% more applications than non-sponsored jobs. Their data also says that in the past minute alone, 23 hires were made on Indeed worldwide. There's no need to wait any longer. You can speed up your hiring right now with Indeed. Then listeners of the show will get a $75 sponsored job credit to get your jobs more visibility at indeed.com/propg. Just go to indeed.com/provg right now and support our show by saying you heard about Indeed on this podcast. Indeed.com/propg. Terms and conditions apply. Hiring Indeed is all you need. a big kind of call sign for Republicans and Democrats. It seems as if we have a bit of a a a fetish or a lot of goodwill for quote unquote manufacturing. You consistently hear candidates talk about the importance of manufacturing plays. And if you thought of a state that sort of embodied manufacturing, I think it would be Michigan. I think if people said, "Okay, what state is ground zero for how well or not well we're doing in terms of manufacturing?" It'd be Michigan. Curious what you think about our quoteunquote our our national policy as it relates to manufacturing. We can use that as a bridge to talk about tariffs, but what do you think America gets right or wrong about manufacturing? And what have you done at a state level to ensure that I think it's your number one sector is manufacturing remains robust? You know, when when we think about the pandemic, right, we have a we've all lived through a very recent very clear example of what happens when we're not manufacturing in this country. Just trying to get swabs was or or masks was impossible and lives were lost because we weren't able to do that. Um, I'm grateful that we had, you know, a kind of a resurgence and reinterest around supporting manufacturing and onshoring supply chains. It's it's it's critical for our homeland security. It's critical for jobs. It's critical for our health. And, you know, the Biden administration did a lot of good work to spur this. Um, and I'm I'm worried. I'm worried right now because in Michigan, we've seen a lot of investment around growing our manufacturing. it is our our big industry and autos to boot which makes up a bulk of our advanced manufacturing but we do a lot of different types of manufacturing and agriculture and all of these things make us uniquely susceptible to the pain of um of tariff policy that is just complete chaos right now we lack a strategic goal um 90 deals in 90 days we've had two and not with the most with the biggest trade partners that we have. And so right now, I think it's it's really precarious in Michigan, despite all the work that we've done to make sure that our workforce is ready to level the barriers between people and skills that get them into good paying jobs, including manufacturing jobs. Um, and I I I'm very worried about what this what this moment is going to um reap for Michigan long term. You know, there's a saying that when um the country gets a cold, Michigan gets the flu. You know, we feel it harder and faster than other states do. And we're seeing that right now with this tariff policy. And later today, I'm going to be talking with the Secretary of Commerce to talk a little bit about the Canadian tariffs in particular and what it's meaning to the Michigan economy because I don't know that they are seeing it. And I want to make sure that it's very clear and I'm gonna do my best to continue to prevail on them to come up with some sort of an agreement with Mark Carney and and the Canadians, but also, you know, the Mexican government because North American trade is um you know, it ain't perfect, but it's been working and we rely on it and it's really important to so many jobs and and so much of American manufacturing. Where are you with respect to the president's basic notion that America that we have all of these asymmetric trade relationships and that many nations have taken advantage of us in terms of trade and this sort of full embrace of a tariff policy? What do what do you think about tariffs as they relate to protecting some industries including manufacturing and how the administration is going about it? >> I think the way they're going about it is dangerous and we're we're feeling it in Michigan already. I can tell you that they have never articulated a long-term strategic goal and once we get there that that corporate, you know, that corporations can evolve and then plan on it. It's this on off hot cold. What is it today? Who's it who's who are who's our enemy tomorrow? And you know, I'm really concerned. You know, Michigan is we like to say, you know, we're basically second cousins with our Canadian neighbors in Michigan. If you've ever been to a hospital in Detroit, odds are you've been taken care of by a Canadian nurse. They come across the border in hundreds every single day to take care of Americans, Michiganders mostly, right? And so this is a relationship that was built over generations that has been mutually beneficial. When LA's on fire, Canadian firefighters come to help. you know, I mean, this is something that has been, you know, just a true allies in every sense of the word. And now I can tell you, Canadians aren't coming to the States. They're not coming for tourism. They're not investing in America. They're not buying American goods. Um, the can the Canadian ambassador to the United States. I was recently in an event with her and she was talking about how Canada's uh consumption of American goods dwarfs China's uh I think France, Germany, like she she was listing five countries together were dwarfed by Canadian consumption. That's why this relationship has got to be resolved um and protected and it's going to take us generations to earn back the kind of trust that we built over the the last number of years. In five months, so much damage has been done and and I worry what that's going to mean for us long term. >> So, generally speaking, when we think about when I was younger, you didn't people didn't sort of go shopping for states. I didn't think I never I don't remember people thinking, "Oh, no sales tax or no state income tax. I'm moving to Florida from New York." And now it feels as if states have to compete for not only businesses, but just for citizens. And loosely speaking, I think most people would say that immigration patterns are driven by two things. Um, sunshine and low taxes. And Michigan has neither of those. And yet it it appears the surveys I've read that it does really well in terms of a businessfriendly environment. uh really well in terms of quality of life economy good not great um but what is your approach to if you will if you're selling the consumer product that is Michigan trying to convince my understanding is you've actually had net population growth that that that those migration patterns are not the case at Michigan what is your pitch to consumers and businesses and the policies to back them up to make Michigan a state they choose to move to instead of from. >> Well, Michigan's got a great quality of life. You know, we've got 20% of the world's fresh surface water is in and around the Great Lakes. We've got more coastline than any other state in the continental United States, and it's all fresh water. No sharks and no salt. Um, we've got phenomenal uh institutions of higher education, including our community colleges, um, and our our higher educational institutions. And um you know there's a a company that's got dual headquarters, one in Silicon Valley, one in Washna County, Michigan, right near in Ann Arbor. And um they're having an easier time recruiting to to Michigan because our cost of living is onetenth that in in Northern California. And so all of these things I think are are great strengths for us. You know, I was talking with the the Aspen Institute on Climate yesterday in Chicago. We were chatting a little bit about climate and one of the questions posed was both your states are well positioned for climate you'll have population growth and I'm like oh my god climate immigrants is is you know is not how we want to grow our population climate bad climate is not good for anybody as I can tell you when I look across at the Meno Bridge the smoke from Canadian wildfires is impacting us so um I think you know the strengths that I highlighted are are part of it. But I'd also add, Michiganders are down to earth. You know, I as I talk to businesses who have presence in other states, Michiganers take pride in their work and we're gritty people who show up and we work hard. And I think that's a an important point on top of all the other policies that we've had to make Michigan a welcoming state, a place where you can make your own decisions about your body, where every person's protected and respected under the law. um and and where we've leveled the financial barrier to get skills so you can get into good paying jobs. I think these are all important aspects of the work that we're doing. >> And how do you how do you keep or maintain that quality? So I think a quality life means you get a good job and you can afford your rent. You keep housing costs and education costs at a reasonable level and ensure that people have decent jobs, decent highpaying jobs. How do you how do you do that? I know. Let me start with housing because it feels as if that has been a real issue around maintaining affordability in different states. How how do you ensure that um long we want to say of how do you approach affordability of Michigan? >> So we've really been on a crusade to build affordable housing in Michigan these last few years. We've plowed a lot of resources into it. We have um I think maintained our our high level of um uh standards but moved licensing a lot faster, moved permits a lot faster. We've added tens of thousands of housing units and we've created um tens of thousands of construction jobs in the process which is good paying trades jobs which is something that we take great pride in as well. I think we've got, you know, a lot of great programs to help people pay off $10,000 of a down payment so that more people can get in. You know, I raised this in my state of the state earlier this year. You know, women are 2 to one buying homes, their first homes to men. Of course, the average age is way too high, you know, for everybody, but 2 to one women are are doing that. So, we're doing a lot more outreach to to men to make sure that they know of all these opportunities and programs, too. I think that it's really um you know, very important that everyone can participate, but the housing costs and um accessibility all across this country are the costs are way too high and accessibility is way too low. And so we've made it a real priority with state dollars to um find those partnerships where we can build more at a lower at a lower price point so that more people can participate. >> You referenced something we think a lot about here and that is um young men who are struggling and um you also reference more single women now own homes than men. Single women in um urban areas are now making as much or more than men. 6040 college attendance. And I want to be clear, all of those things are wonderful. That's a collective victory. We should we should hold hands and applaud our victory here. Um, it's not the same for men. Young men are really struggling, right? Four times like they kill themselves, three times as likely to be addicts or homeless. And you made a direct appeal uh in your in your your state of the state. What do you think if you try to diagnose the issue here, the problem, what is it? Why are young men having such a difficult time and can you point to any specific programs or ideas in the state of Michigan that you think can help address this issue? >> Well, it's a it's a really important question that you're asking and you know I'm I'm the mom of two daughters, but it's in their interest that we create real opportunity for every person, right? And and we have made strides when it comes to women, but we we do see men falling behind. is just what we're seeing is it's in the data and you I appreciate the work that you're doing. I've learned a lot by listening to you and and trying to do our research here on the ground. You know, it's not just in housing. It is also um when it comes to, you know, the programs that we have designed to make it easier for people to get skills, right? There's not one path for everyone. And I think we've done as a country ourselves a real disservice in talking about the four-year education as the only path to prosperity. There are lots of different paths, whether it's a two-year certificate or it is a trade school where you can get skills and get paid while you're getting them and have no debt and a good paying job on the other side. There's opportunity for every person, but not every person sees that opportunity. And I think that's part of the problem that we've had is reaching young men. these programs. So, you know, making community college free for every high school graduate. We have big uh scholarships available for kids who do want to go to four-year institutions. We also created something called the Michigan Reconnect, which is for people 25 and up to go back to school and to upskill. In all those programs, we're seeing uptake 2:1 women to men. Two to one. They're available to everyone. They're not designed for one gender or another. They are designed to make sure that every person can participate. But for some reason, it's 2:1 women to men. And that's why in my state of the state, I talked about just our efforts to do the outreach to go in places where men are cuz we're obviously not reaching them. I think that that's going to be really important. The more people who feel hopeless and powerless and angry, the the more dangerous our rhetoric gets, the more dangerous our world gets and the less opportunity there is. So, um it was interesting though, Scott, I got to tell you, when I when I did that, I did get some some interesting kind of reaction. You know, some people said, "Are you abandoning your you know, the work that you do to to create more opportunity for women?" And I said, "No, this is it's it's like I remember someone once said, when you say save the rainforest, you're not saying screw all the other forests." You're saying, "I see a vulnerability here. Let's get to work and address it." And that's what we're doing. Doing that outreach, making sure that young men participate, too, can see a future, can feel hopeful and empowered to participate in this economy and live the lives that they want. Um, but the interesting thing is it's been mostly moms um and and some dads of course, but who are advocating for their sons and and that's what I'm thinking about when we promote these these opportunities. >> Yeah, empathy is not a zerosome game. And to your point, I found the biggest advocates that have made it a much more productive conversation than the gag reflex that was inspired if you just brought it up 5 years ago is mothers from both sides of the aisle. They just see something is going on. when you curious your thoughts on immigration policy. Um I mean two big things here, but I'd love you for you to just to touch on the um president's immigration policy and some of these ICE raids. U my sense is your the your population of undocumented workers is only about 1.2% but I'm sure it's impacting Michigan and also then any thoughts on this big beautiful um tax bill that's passed. >> Those are two big questions. >> A lot there. Yeah. out there. >> You know, I'll start with this. You know, we recently had um visitors from the federal government in Michigan um talking about, you know, we have not seen a lot of the stuff that's playing out in other parts of the country. To your point, the northern border, um people don't realize this, but when you talk about border crossings, the most active border crossing in North America is in Detroit, goes to Windsor. And um we've been very fortunate to have very few issues on the border. Uh but someone made a representation that we're just getting inundated by gangs and fentinel um on the northern border which was news to me frankly. And so I had a security briefing with um some of the the folks in the federal government and I asked the question and they said you know we see fentanyl everywhere. So where's it coming from? Uh don't know. So, it's probably not coming down from Canada, but there's a fentanyl problem in this country. No question. It's been challenging to see some of the national conversation in this space when the facts on the ground don't um necessarily bear it out. All of that being said, you know, we do have to have a path to citizenship for people who come here legally, and we do have to have, you know, strong borders. There's no question about that. It's it's important to our our democracy, to our ability to secure the homeland, but um I don't agree with the way that they're going about it. I think it's just dangerous and um destructive. When I think about the the big bill, and uh I'm not going to use their phrase for it because I I think it's a a terrible terrible set of policies. I worry about a lot of people in our country. I worry about people immediately who are going to lose access to health care that we've worked so hard to expand in Michigan. I worry about hospitals in rural areas that are not going to make it because of the devastation to the Medicaid population that they disproportionately serve. They're not going to be able to keep doors open. I worry about our kids who are going to inherit debt like I that is you can't even get your head around. Um and and so yeah, I I was fighting against the bill. my go my fellow Democratic governors and I were I think one of the most disappointing things is Republican governors are going to see the same devastation in their states, but they were mum and I I I just um it's hard to believe we're at this moment um in in America that people are are willing to bite their tongues for their own political um good, you know, for their own political good and sacrifice the people that they serve. It's just um it's shocking. It's really shocking to me. >> We'll be right back. >> Support for the show comes from Vanta. As a founder, you're moving fast toward product market fit, your next round, or your first big enterprise deal. But with AI accelerating how quickly startups build and ship, your security expectations are higher earlier than ever. Getting security and compliance right can unlock growth or stall it if you wait too long. Vanta is a trust management platform that helps businesses automate security and compliance with deep integrations and automated workflows built for fastmoving teams. So whether you're a startup tackling your first SOCK 2 or ISO 2701 or an enterprise managing vendor risk, Mant's trust management platform makes it quicker, easier, and more scalable. The results, according to an IDC study, Mant customers slash over $500,000 a year in costs. Establishing trust isn't optional. Vanta makes it automatic. Go to vanta.com/propg to save $1,000 today through the Vant for startups program and join over 10,000 ambitious companies already scaling with Vanta. That's venta.com/profg to save $1,000 for a limited time. [Music] So there's a perception that the relationship between the administration and governors is entirely dependent upon whether you're part of MAGA or not and is that the case? How is your relationship with the current administration right now? >> Complicated complicated. You know, I got to tell you, in uh my first term, my first two years of my first term were the last two years of the first Trump administration and notoriously uh very contentious, right? They called me that woman from Michigan. I got threat threatened to be kidnapped and killed by, you know, people that I think were in >> refused to condemn that. >> Yep. >> Yeah. Not only that, but you know, gas was thrown on the fire um through the election. You know, it was it was really scary. And like I said, after I came out of my my Dexter uh funk, I decided I gotta try. I'm gonna do everything I can to do as much as I can for the state of Michigan. I got, you know, I'm going to keep showing up. And sometimes they won't like to see me and like to hear what I have to say, but I'm going to keep showing up and I'm going to keep making the case. I got a a a Air National Guard base recapitalized, which is incredible. I tried to get that done under the B administration. Couldn't get over the finish line, but I got it done in the first few months of this year. I'm grateful for that. I'm working on a lot of other things. I got a we had a massive ice storm here in Michigan a few months ago. Hard to believe it's 80° out and we had ice storm not long ago. I still haven't gotten FEMA relief for the businesses and people in Michigan. I'm still working on that. I'm having a call with the administration today about the the Canadian, you know, North American tariffs situation. So, I've decided I'm going to lean in and I'm going to be I'm going to be the squeaky wheel. And if sometimes I can get some good stuff from Michigan, great. And if they get mad at me, that's fine, too. It doesn't mean I forebear from suing when we need to as states, which we have many times. But I'm going to do everything I can to keep the lines of communication open because if I've learned anything, it's when you're not talking, you got no sha shot at finding finding any common ground. And I'm not pretending there's going to be a lot there, but I'm gonna keep trying. That's my duty as governor. I think >> I think one of the things that is been frustrating for Democrats is we see things happening that to us you these these red lines keep getting blown and we see people being thrown off their Medicaid and a tax bill that that is primarily kind of you know transferring wealth from young to old from the future to the past from the poor to the rich and are frustrated that more there is a more democratic leadership pushing back there's a there's I think a legitim Imate concern. It's sort of like where's the leadership on the Democratic side in that we just I mean it would be very difficult right now I think for anyone to say who is the leader of the Democratic party when you're to the extent you can behind closed doors talking to Democrats about how to resist here or what can be done. Um what are your thoughts? Well, I'm going to say something that's going to be really depressing, and that is we're 5 months in to a 48-month term. All right? And I understand the desire to fight to fight everything. I get it. I feel that, too. I feel the same desperation you just spoke to. And as a governor, I have a role. You know, I have an important role. My fellow governors and I do, we talk about this a lot. How do we band together and show Americans what Democratic leaders do? It's by delivering in our states. It's by fighting the federal government when they're impacting our states. But we are not the counterpoint to the executive branch and the federal government. That's Congress. That's their whole job is to be that counterpoint. And so when I see Congress people who are stepping into the frey, I'm cheering them on. whether it's AOC or it's Chris Murphy or it's anyone else. I appreciate that and I recognize that every one of us must play a role. There's not going to be one leader of this party. There's just not right now. We don't have a president and so there's going to be a lot of leaders. It's got to be, you know, a team a team effort. But I also am cognizant that I got to lead a state of 10 million people through this time. And that means living my values, showing people what Democratic leadership can do and will do for people so that they can point to, okay, this what they're doing in Michigan is good and we need more people like that in the federal government. And I'm not talking about me. I'm talking about Democrats at large. Um, and I think, you know, to your point, I have that same sense of frustration. and I see some of the things going on at um and I and I read the articles that I know some of the folks that that they're talking about um and and I scratch my head and I say how do I how do I contribute to something that actually is going to be productive and successful because can have all the right positions in the world but if you can't win an election none of it matters. >> So let's talk about that. Let's have some fun. Let's imagine that you're drafted. you're consistently me mentioned as one of the most viable candidates for the on the Democratic side. Let's let's go all the way forward to inauguration of of a 2020 2028 Whitmer presidency and you have a 12-month honeymoon period as any new president might have and a lot of political capital but maybe only one or two issues to spend that capital on. as you look at the nation and you try and imagine um a Whitmer presidency, what are the one or two issues you think you would want to focus on with that political capital during quote unquote that honeymoon phase? Where do you think the biggest need is? Where would you want to have the most impact if you had if you held the, you know, the the highest job in the land? >> I don't even like this game, Scott, because it'll just get >> Come on. Come on, Governor. Let's break that. Let's break some news here. >> Listen, I care about I want to have a hand in writing the next chapter, but I don't know that I got to be the main character, but I will say this. I think any Democrat in their first 12 months, when you are given power, you better use it and not be apologetic about it and not be shy about it. People elect you to do the job. And by God, you know, if if there's something that I think has resonated with the current occupant of the White House with people is that he's not afraid to use power. I I got lots of problems with it. I don't know that it's all legal and it's certainly not all ethical, but he's not afraid to use power. And I think sometimes Democrats are too afraid. So, I'd love to see a bold leader who takes on a lot of issues that have been vexing us. But I would, you know, maybe I've been listening to your podcast too much, but I'm thinking about I'm thinking about the national debt. I'm thinking about the all the ways that we are saddling future generations of Americans with with, you know, the debt and it's just uh it's unethical. It's horrific. And both parties have been guilty of it. I will say Democrats have retired more debt than Republicans have during their relevant administrations, but it's run up over many many um administrations. >> Well, let's talk about that because I think a lot of people agree we're spending 7 trillion on 5 trillion in receipts. Um, what I find Democrats come up short is that they all agree we need to have this conversation, but they don't want to have it because it involves very unpopular decisions around both cutting spending and raising taxes. Any thoughts or programs you can or decisions you can point to in Michigan around trying to restore fiscal sanity? Where where do you think and two point of questions, where do you think we could raise revenues and where do you think we could cut costs? So, I'll just say this, you know, as a as a governor, I got to have a balanced budget. Every year, we got a balanced budget. >> And we um have retired a lot of debt in Michigan. We've paid down billions like that. Last, I think it the number was 18 or 20 billion dollars of debt. We've gotten our credit rating um incre, you know, improved, upgraded. uh we have made created um a rainy day fund that has a historic high in it now and created one for education as well. So we've been really prudent with our our dollars and unlike some states we used onetime CO dollars for one-time expenses instead of rolling it into ongoing needs where some states have serious budget deficits. Now we we don't have that caveat being tariffs are starting to really have an impact on our state budget. We're seeing that and um I'm concerned about that in combination with the cuts coming from the federal federal government because of the latest legislation. But I do think that uh need is needbased analysis is really important as we look to you know my dad doesn't need his social security. He doesn't he's he did well. He's not a billionaire. you know, but he he did well in his life and he does not need the social security checks. There are a lot of people in Michigan who a $1,500 stipen for a mom in Flint with our RX kids. $1,500 makes all the difference in the world that she can take care of her child. And so that's just one quick way of saying to really evaluate how do we spend our precious taxpayer dollars in a way that is going to have the biggest impact, drive our economy, and help more people be able to participate. I think that is one very clear question that is never asked enough and should be. >> So it sounds like you're willing to sort of get near or even touch the third rail. And it sounds like what you're suggesting is you're open to the idea of means testing or maybe raising the age for social security. Am I am I interpreting that correctly? >> I think one of the things that um you know that you said in one of the podcasts I listened to recently was you know the the only color that we should ask is green, right? I you phrased it much more eloquently than I just uh paraphrase, but there's a lot of a lot of wisdom to that because there are a lot of people of color. there a lot of white people, you know, all people who are in poverty. Um, if we could have programs that really benefit that segment of of society, we'd all be better off. There wouldn't be this this anger and this wealth gap disparity that is fueling so much of the the anger that is um driving the the rhetoric in this country right now. And just as we governor, just as we wrap up here and think and you've been very generous with your time, people whether they agree with you or not are just going to look at look at you and think this is a high functioning and very successful person. When you look back on your life, what are the really key seminal influences or moments that enabled you to kind of achieve this level of influence? And I would imagine it's a very frustrating but a very rewarding job. What What were those moments in your life that really helped to put wind in your sales? >> So going into last year, um I wrote a book called True Gretch, and it's 10 things I've learned over my life that have really helped me navigate the last six years, the crazy years that I've been governor, right? pandemic, a kidnapping plot, you know, demonstrations for racial justice, incredible um climate events that meant we had to evacuate 10,000 people in the middle of the night in the middle of a pandemic, like 32 recall attempts, you know, all the crazy crap I've had to navigate. People often ask me, "Why do you still feel positive? Why did you want to run for reelection?" You know, and that's a legitimate question. I think most people be like, "Forget this." I love it. I love this job. And I think, you know, in that in the book, I talk about 10 things that have given me a lesson that I learned, something I screwed up. I talk about throwing up on my my high school principal when I was in college or I'm sorry, in high school, throwing up on my principal and getting suspended and just really was a moment that changed everything for me where I was like, "All right, I got to it changed the decisions that I made. I became a more improved student. and I went to Michigan State, which I couldn't have gotten into if I didn't get my act together at that point in my high school career. I went to law school where it really clicked for me. Um, I talk about, you know, the the shortcomings, the the terrible things that happened to me like um I was raped when I was in college. You know, a therapist once told me, we're all a ball of clay and sometimes things get hollowed out or taken away from us and it's not fair and it's not right. But if you can see that now that that is a vessel and it can carry water, you can find purpose in the in the bad decisions you made or in the horrible things that happened to you. And I think about that a lot because um I am not perfect. I'm I've never tried to tell people I am. I am a flawed human being. I'm a normal person in an extraordinary role taking care of my mom during that period of time when she was dying and I was trying to you know I I have had a new baby. All of these things um I think are are what make me feel really grateful to be here. I sometimes feel like I I don't deserve to be in this position. It's a high honor to be the governor of Michigan. I feel really lucky about it. I also think maybe that's why um people have elected me because they know I don't think I'm better than anyone and uh in some in some regards I'm I'm not as good as some. >> Yeah, we share that. I I was uh very close to my mother and she went through an extended illness that eventually took her life. It definitely I think that and the birth of my kids changed kind of everything for me. Is there anything you can point to in terms of how you approach life or how it impacted you taking care for a sick person who who I mean a glyobblastoma that's just not a great way to go just being quite fr that's that's a tough one. any anything you're willing to share about how it changed your approach to to life or, you know, the impact it had on you? >> I think I was probably, you know, always an empathetic, you know, individual. My dad always says, you know, I was a pretty sensitive kid. When we would go from my mom's house to my dad's house, I'd leave him notes cuz I was worried that he would be lonely, you know, when he dropped my sister and brother and me off. Um, but I remember during, you know, talking with one of the hospice folks and they left a pamphlet for us to look at and, you know, it was it was I was, you know, just had just had a baby. My mom was dying. I was reading this pamphlet and it talked about, you know, it was this scenario, a man getting on a subway with his like five kids and they're running mayhem and they're annoying everyone on the on the subway. And this woman's just about had it. a kid bumped into her for like the eighth time and she's just about to read in the riot act. And he turns to her and he says, "You know, my wife just died and I don't know how I'm going to take care of these kids." And that changed everything, right? She felt sadness and empathy and wanted to help him instead of reading the riot act. I always have that in the back of my head. You know, so many people have got something else going on. And so I try to I try to think about different scenarios that could be that person that's tailgating you. you know, you want to flip them off, you want to honk at them, you want to do something. Maybe they're rushing to the hospital because one of their loved ones was in a car accident. You know, I mean, I'm always trying to think that way. And I think that that period of time with my mom when people didn't know what I was going through and maybe gave me a hard time when they shouldn't have or maybe I did the same to someone. Um, you know, I I I think about that a lot that everyone's going through something. If you're not right now, you have or you will. and um try to be kind. You know, you never regret being kind. >> You have two daughters, but you also have three stepsons. And just before we go here, I was uh my dad was married and divorced four times. And one of the lights of my life was my uh I guess stepmother by my dad's third marriage. We're still very close. talk about any thoughts you can share on best practices around being a parent to kids who aren't biologically yours, being a stepmom. >> My dad was married and divorced four times, too, Scott. >> There you go. >> Got that in common, too. Um >> That's right. >> You know, I think that and and and I'll share this about my ex-husband, too. You we we're still very good friends, and my husband and ex-husband um sometimes jam together. My husband plays guitar. my ex plays uh the drums. It's hilarious. But you know, my stepsons, I've I've learned a lot. Boys and girls are different. There's the big shocking news breaker of this conversation, but um you know, they need different things. And I've learned a lot. My husband is a great dad. He loves his boys. And um I know that how important that relationship is and how how lucky how lucky they are. Um, and so I think having the boys in in my daughter's lives have enriched, we've all been enriched by it. We kind of merged a sorority and a fraternity when we got married. We're kind of the Brady Bunch and um it was uh we've all benefited from it and I feel really lucky. But we have to be intentional. It's not always easy. It's not always easy. >> And any one tip on parenting or a thing that shocked you about parenting? >> No, that anything shocked me. I just think trying to stay be there trying to be present and you know of all the downsides to technology you know the devices um I'm always connected to my kids and I'm I'm grateful for that and connected to my stepsons too we all get along great and I think it's because we're we play cards together we spend time together and uh we enjoy each other >> Governor Gretchen Whitmer is the 49th governor of Michigan and there's always these accidental tells about politicians and I'm hearing hearing from most of them and fortunate enough to have a lot of them on the pod. But a real tell on the governor is the following. You are the first politician I have ever interviewed who when I asked for your bio sent one sentence and that sentence is the following. Governor Whitmer is a Democratic and lifelong Michigander and is known for her work on healthcare infrastructure and for speaking out on national issues. Um, I think that says something about you that you said, you know, uh, we can sum it up here. I thought that was very telling. Uh, very much appreciate uh, your leadership and, uh, also just the humanity you bring to these issues and, uh, uh, stay safe and very much again appreciate your public service and, uh, your time today, Governor. Thanks very much. >> Thanks, Scott. Appreciate it. We'll be interviewing I think my guess is almost every presidential candidate um at least on the Democratic side, but we'll reach out to everyone on the Republican side. So, here is a no mercy, no malice review of Governor Whitmer. She reeks of confidence and integrity. You just get the sense this is a good person and a competent person and that matters. Um and that's who you want in government. It's easy to be cynical about government. This is a good person who could be, you know, making a lot more money doing something else and instead chooses to be a public servant. I think she's going to be a player, swing state, an obvious choice for uh the top job on everyone's short list for the VP candidacy. The problem, and it's not only Governor Whitmer's problem, but the Democratic party, long on rhetorical flourish, not as long on specific programs. I think we're moving from uh an era of trying to be Obama, but you're not Obama to Okay. Well, what exactly does that mean? We have 7 trillion dollars in spending, five trillion in receipts. Uh what does that mean? What are the first two or three big programs you would propose in the first 90 days? I think Democrats who get more serious about running are going to have to come up with um bold, big ideas and outline them specifically. And I don't think the governor was able to do that. Uh nor has any other Democrat. And again, kudos to her for bringing up the idea of means testing social security, but there's just no doubt about it. She's going to be on everyone's short list for at least VP. Uh I also worry, and this is it's difficult to say, but I think it's true. I wonder if the Democrats are going to take the risk on a third female nominee given that the previous two have not been successful. And I'm not saying that's the way the world should be. I'm saying that's the way the world is. But again, I'll finish where I started. To be cynical about our elected leaders is not productive because if you speak to people like Governor Whitmer, you realize that many of our people who decide to be public servants are outstanding at what they do. [Music] [Music]