You made a really interesting connection here that by empowering or kind of upskilling Chinese manufacturing base, we've increased unwittingly, I would imagine, the likelihood of an invasion of Taiwan. Help make that connection for us. Once you are teaching a supplier how to do advanced electronics in any number of degrees, they're not necessarily going to stay with building smartphones. But once you have those skills, what else do you do with them? Will you do the most sort of obvious adjacent tasks in electronics? Like the same skill sets will help build you drones. The same skill sets will help you build military weaponry. I mean chips are the foundation of the modern world and Apple helps these companies with chips. Patrick, where does this podcast find you? San Francisco. I just got back from sort of a, you know, two week book tour in New York and London, but this is where I live. San Francisco. Uh, so let's b right into it. Your new book, Apple in China, tells the story of how China essentially was built as a country by Apple. Well, let's start there. I' I've seen you cite some incredible statistics. Of course, I discovered you on Tik Tok where I discover everything now where you cited some just amazing stats. Um, give us some of those stats and tell us how intertwined uh Apple has become uh with China. So just before I give you the numbers, I should just very briefly say that, you know, the the sort of push back I'm getting, right, is is is the line that like Apple built China, right? The book doesn't sort of so stringently say that. It says it was the biggest contributor to the high-tech electronics industry, which has been described by, you know, scholars like Barry Notton as Xiinping's most important thing. So you know, obviously I'm not claiming that like they built everything. It's just that their um efforts in China really are that of a nation building effort. No, I'm going with China owes everything to Apple. I think that's more dramatic. Anyways, go ahead. Okay. The numbers are phenomenal, right? So, um, and it's it's worth knowing what the numbers mean as well. So, since 2008, Apple has trained 28 million people in the supply chain. Apple would push back and say that that's not all in China, but they also won't tell you which percentage is in China because they know that it's, you know, very very high. Maybe it's 27 million, maybe it's 26 million. The numbers are astonishing. It's a bigger labor force than um all of uh California. In 2015, Apple is sort of on the back foot uh with Beijing and provincial officials. They're trying to demonstrate how influential they are to the country largely as an effort not to have to do joint ventures, which is what Beijing has wanted from Western companies for decades. So, they do their own supply chain study and realize uh that they're sitting on like real political capital. So what they realize is that they're investing $55 billion a year uh and that they basically go to Jang Nang Hai, Tim Cook and two top deputies, that's the Citadel of Chinese Communist Power in Beijing, Forbidden City, and um they pledge that they will spend that amount for the next 5 years totaling $275 billion. Um this is mostly um training costs and wages in addition to really sophisticated machinery that they put on other people's production lines. So if the 28 million workers line sounds like dramatically high or too high, um Tim Cook's own estimate for how many workers they have in any given year is 3 million and the churn in Apple supply chain is ridiculous. And the other interesting thing to know about this is Apple does not work like other companies where they're just hoping that component makers innovate on them on their own initiative, you know, come up with lighter materials, more durable materials. Apple is sending people by the plane load to engineer those materials, invent those materials, um, you know, do the production processes behind the parts. And so they take dramatic, uh, control of their supply chain on a on a level and scale that I don't think any other company in the world um, matches at all. Tim Cook is caught between two lovers, if you will, between she and Trump. describe the relationship to the best of your kind of ability or knowledge between Cook and she and Cook and Trump right now. So when Xihinping comes into power in 2013, he doesn't understand what Apple's contributions to the country are. And we know this because within 36 hours of him being appointed president, um CCTV, sort of state sponsored CNN of China, attacks Apple. And there's many reasons to think of Apple as an exploitative power in the country. Um, for instance, their margins go from something like 1.1% I think in 2003 to above 25% by 2012. And yet from Beijing's perspective, this massive success is all on the back of China, right? In two respects. One, they know better than anybody that Apple wouldn't have another place to ship the like quality um and quantity of products that they're shipping at that point. Um, and two, uh, it's it's the Chinese market, the Chinese buyers that are accounting for a dramatic, you know, Tim Cook's word is mind-boggling share of of of Apple products, right? And there's this dramatic narrative in the book where, you know, Apple really does not think China is going to be a market in 2008. They build their first retail store there purely because of the Beijing Olympics. And then, um, you know, without really even trying in a certain sense, the iPhone becomes like this spectacular success story uh, in 2010. and it continues forward to such a degree that hardliners in Beijing are upset with Apple because it sort of represents the materialism, the individualism of Western culture and and that's not really something they're in favor of. So the relationship with she and Cook begins on a really rocky patch because uh you know Apple represents so many things that Xiinping doesn't like and Apple begins this effort uh you know two two or three year effort really to appoint or hire this group of people that call themselves the gang of eight. I understand you went to you you you taught with one of them. Is that right by the way? Doug Guthrie. Yeah. Yeah, I know Doug well. Yeah. So, I would love to hear about that. So, he's he's Doug Guthrie is the guy that leading China University, sorry, Apple University within China. Um, and so they come up with this narrative that sort of flips the narrative on its head of saying we're not exploiting China. We are actually contributing in a great way by by having our engineers work in hundreds of factories. hand and glove training them, auditing them, supervising them and installing machinery on a totally epic scale and and this is where some of the numbers are just astounding that really changes the relationship. So Tim Cook basically goes with this message to Jong Nanghai, the Citadel of Communist Power and and tells the Chinese leadership about this. And aside from content, let's say, you know, having to ban VPNs, having to ban WhatsApp and the New York Times, Apple really hasn't had any problems in China since then. Um, we can maybe unpack that a little bit, but that was the winning formula to to get over Xiinping. This is my language, not not Apple's, of course, but Apple realizes it's the biggest supporter of made in China 2025, which is Beijing's directive in 2015, uh, for the company to become self-sufficient in robotics, in automation, in high-end electronics. And so, Apple ends up being this massive supporter of that and gives rise uh to, you know, Huawei, OPPO, Xiaomi, etc. because when Apple is supplying hundred or sorry when Apple is training hundreds of their suppliers uh they basically say go forth and multiply to them so that they're not so dependent on Apple and and and so they basically give birth to the Chinese smartphone market and those numbers too are pretty astounding. So that that that in a nutshell I would say is the the Cook she relationship. The Cook Trump relationship is really quite different because when when Tim Cook is telling the Beijing government how much they're investing it's real substance. I mean there's ways that they're calculating the figures and one could question them on accounting basis or whatever but the result the reality is that you know Apple is doing 90% of their production in China. So when they say we're investing this much we're training this number of people and these are accurate figures right when Apple is conducting the same lobbying effort with Washington the numbers are pretty fanciful. So, I mean, if your listeners don't really agree with me or think it's it's a number that's too high when I say they're investing $55 billion a year, just remember that in February, Apple said that it's going to put in $500 billion investment and spend into America over the next four years. So, just just sort of suspend your disbelief here for a second. I'm saying they're they're investing this crazy amount in a country where there's 90% of their production and Apple's own figure that they're trying to convince everybody of is even higher in a country where 0% of their production takes place. So something is a miss here and it's not me being bad with the figures. It's that Apple is making a lobbying effort that's based on uh slight of hand and sort of magician trick misleading information. So what I'm saying there is that Cook's relationship with the Trump administration is based on a lack of substance and a sort of political window dressing because they know what a threat Donald Trump is. I mean Xiinping is not as big a threat as uh as Donald Trump is. And you could just sort of see that in a common sensical way which is that broadly speaking Xiinping and Tim Cook have their interests aligned. If they can both have Apple producing in China, that works wonders for both of them. That does not work wonders for Donald Trump. He does not want production to be in chi in in China. And so the push to make iPhones in in the US, which is fanciful for all reasons we can get into is really what puts Tim Cook in buying tier. I think fanciful is the right word. The estimates I I've seen is that a US produced iPhone would be $3,500. Is that accurate? I would just push back on that number because it's that itself is a fanciful figure. I mean, the problem isn't that they'd be more expensive. The problem is that they couldn't be built. Um, we we have no idea how much an iPhone would would would uh would cost if it were built in America. It's more that we just completely lack the capability. The line I like to use is an iPhone has a thousand components in it being produced and uh you know like the logistics, the production, the just in time manufacturing um for those phones up to a million a day. So that means a billion parts a day. And good luck finding an American corporation that can do one of those components at a million a day, let alone hundreds of factories that can do all of it. We're just 15 20 years behind. And that's that that even is assuming that we would have the sort of Nietian will to power that China has for its manufacturing sector. Um I mean we can go into it. I keep getting asked the question and but it's sort of a useless exercise. I mean there are at least 15 to 20 reasons why iPhone manufacturing on mass is never going to happen in America. It really just is a fantasy. So in some at any price it's just not feasible. Not like the thing that people don't get is just the volumes that are involved. So Tim Cook is under such political pressure that I could see some final assembly taking place in America just because it makes such a great press release, but it's never going to be in consequential numbers. It's certainly not going to be cost competitive. And frankly, if you think of who would have to work in these factories, it's totally antithetical to the MAGA crowd. In other words, it's the people fleeing Honduras that would be ripe for these factories. I mean, those are the sort of people that could work a 12-hour day and have the sort of desperation because you're you're trying to find the equivalent of, you know, what does America have in terms of labor support that would be equivalent to people working 14-hour days in the hot fields in western China that go find a life in Shenzhen instead. And, you know, it's not going to be American-born people. It's going to be the people that are trying to get over the Trumpian wall, if you will, to get into the country. So, there's a contradiction in terms even if you really wanted to fulfill the scenario. The message I got from your book was that that was eye opening was not only the sheer scale of Apple training 25 million people and making what you described as Marshall Planike investments in China but just how good Apple's presence has been in China that it has planted acorns in terms of human capital and manufacturing prowess that has just infected and given rise to this manufacturing juggernaut or what I'll call advanced manufacturing. I think in the US we have a tendency to think of Apple as a bunch of you know low low-end manufacturing or excuse me China is the host to a bunch of low-end manufacturing. The reality is their manufacturing on many levels is much more sophisticated than ours is all a long-winded way of saying or prelude it speaking purely as what's best for or would have been best for America the rail politic if you could go back in time would American interests have been best served if Apple and no one can predict the future but if Apple if we could go back 30 years and Apple could make a similar investment in say Mexico which doesn't have the low cost back then uh at China but has much lower costs but isn't seen as an adversary or competitor would we do it over would we do it differently so let me give you the answer I've gotten from a very senior person who used to work at Apple and then I'll sort of give you my answer so his answer and I'm sorry I can't name this person but he he's someone that you would know um he said what else would you have us do like if we knew in 2008 that Xiinping was the next leader and was going to take China in an authoritarian direction Okay, that's harsh, but there's still no place to build at the quality, scale, etc. that we needed to build at. So, short of just saying don't make the iPhone in such numbers, uh, you know, he, this person just said there was really no alternative. Um, I like the Mexico question. So, if we go back 30 years, I mean, one thing that people don't quite understand about NAFTA is it's quite successful between 1993, it signing, and 2001. And in America, we have this parochial view and we talk about the China shock, right? And what's the China shock? It's the impact of China entering the WTO on American jobs and so forth. But the China shock is even bigger in Mexico, right? Because Mexico is more of a competitor in terms of uh you know actually being a mass producer of things than than China was uh or sorry than America was. So you know Mexico gets hit harder by this than than America. Um but but when you are building something in Mexico, right, politically this is a taboo thing, right? Politically, if you if you can, you know, shun a factory or shame a factory rather because they're going from Ohio to to Mexico, it's it's a politically politically winning strategy. But if that factory goes to China instead of Mexico, it's actually far worse because the intermediary trade, think of something like the automotive industry, cross borders between Mexico and US, is quite substantial. So when you have a a product quote unquote made in Mexico, it's often 20 to 25% made with American support in terms of the intermediate goods, right? The content that's actually in that product. Once it's in China, there's basically no intermediary trade, right? It goes down from like 20 to 25% to 5%. So, I'm really in supporter of what we used to call NAFTA because when jobs go to Mexico, you're actually leveraging the sort of low wage competitiveness of an allied nation that's on our border. And then there you would do so in such a way that there's still trade with something like the aerospace sector centered around San Diego for for higher value ad. When it goes to China, it all goes. So, I think there's a substantial difference there and and therefore I'm a big advocate of friend shoring or nearshoring. Um, but reshoring isn't going to happen for a company the size of Apple. We'll be right back after a quick break. Support for PropG comes from Built Rewards. Attention renters, if you haven't heard of Built Rewards, you're about to thank me. You already earn reward points on groceries, travel, and nearly everything else. But there's a crucial expense that you should be earning points on, too. Your rent with Built Rewards, now you can. Paying rent with Built Rewards earns you flexible, transferable points, and unlocks exclusive benefits along the way. First, the points. Just by paying rent, you unlock flexible points that can be transferred to your favorite hotels and airlines, a future rent payment, your next lift ride, and more. No matter where you live or who your landlord is, your rent now works for you. But that's not all. With Built, you gain access to exclusive neighborhood benefits in your city. Built's neighborhood benefits are things like extra points on dining out, complimentary post-workout shakes, and unique experiences only available to Build members. And there's no cost to join. Start paying rent through Built and take advantage of your neighborhood benefits by going to join.com/propg. That's ji nbt.com/propg. Make sure to use our URL so they know we sent you. Join.com/propg to sign up for built today. [Music] you made a really interesting connection here that by empowering or kind of upskilling Chinese manufacturing base, we've increased unwittingly, I would imagine, the likelihood of an invasion of Taiwan. Help make that connection for us. What everyone knows about Apple is industrial design. That's Johnny Iive creating the look, feel, and substance of a product. Um, but Apple operates in a pyramid structure. And as the pyramid goes wider, the more and more employees you have. I mean, it's been described as an upside down funnel rather than a pyramid. So, at the very top, two dozen people maximum. Is Johnny Ives team coming up with a translucent iMac, coming up with, you know, multi-touch glass for the phone, that that sort of thing. They sort of throw it over the fence to product design or PD. These are geniuses of a different sort who have to sort of respond to Johnny Ives's god-like demands and make sure that all the components and everything fit into the very thing that he has uh dictated, right? And so that that's its own problem. What we don't know is sort of the next level of the pyramid. This is manufacturing design or MD. These are the people who then make sure that that prototype can actually be built at scale. And so in order to do that they go to Asia primarily China today but historically Asia to work handinand glove with uh dozens and later hundreds of factories to actually uh build the capabilities that are there. So in a sense a key contention of my book and it's really demonstrated rather than really argued is that China doesn't have the tech competence in the early 2000s to respond to what Johnny IV Studio is coming out with. That's not a knock against China. Nobody had that. Nobody had the tech confidence to respond to what they were doing. And so Apple had to go build it there. And because volumes of the iPod go from a few million to dozens of millions and then you get the iPhone where you go from 5 million in 2007 to a quart billion by 2015, the numbers are just staggering. And Apple is maniacally obsessed about quality in a way that really no other company is. So you've got that combination of insane world beating quantity with insane world beating quality. And in order to actually execute the plans coming out of Steve Jobs and Johnny Ives' minds, uh, you need someone like Tim Cook to operationally scale it. Right? So my line about this is like Johnny IV and Steve Jobs are what make Apple products unique. Tim Cook is what makes Apple products ubiquitous. And this manufacturing design element of the pyramid is a part of operations which is in the product cycle the fourth element of the pyramid. So then someone like Tim Cook and his team take what MD has created in Asia and they get other factories involved to build resiliency and to push down costs and drive competition between suppliers. So they have this huge huge impact. Okay. Now here's where this goes. Once you are teaching a supplier how to do advanced electronics in any number of degrees, they're not necessarily going to stay with building smartphones. I mean first of all that is what they do in in in the first stage. And so you see this huge um you know localized smartphone ecosystem build up not just for western companies but for Chinese companies. So Huawei, Xiaomi, Oppo, Vivo now have 55% global market share. I mean really the only companies in the world doing smartphones are Samsung's Samsung from Korea, iPhone from America and a bunch of Chinese companies. Pixel and everyone else is is so small that they get categorized as other. Um but once you have those skills, what else do you do with them? Well, you do the most sort of obvious adjacent tasks in electronics, right? The same skill sets will help build you drones. The same skill sets will help you build military weaponry. I mean, chips are the foundation of the modern world. And Apple helps these companies with chips. And to the degree that Congress has had to basically intervene, Marco Rubio a few years ago, threatening them with, you know, fire and fury essentially if they continued working with a company called YTMC, which uh was making memory and and Apple wanted the those chips to be in its own smartphones for China. So that's the so so I guess my just to simplify once you understand how um uh intolerant of defects Apple culture is and that they are not working with suppliers who are already competent and they are not going after price. They they are going after quality and they are sending people by the literal plane load to four different industrial clusters in China to do all of this. um you'll begin to sort of understand how they have such an impact on the country and then they're not really in control of what the country does with those skill sets afterwards and so of course China has funneled it into other things that they're interested in which is um electric vehicles, drones and military weaponry. I'll put forward a thesis and you respond to it. Um, I think these Apple tariffs or threats of tariffs on Apple are nonsense. And the idea of the relationship between Apple and China somehow devolving and digressing to a point of no return. Uh, I don't think either of those are realistic. My sense is that Apple in many ways is bigger than China or the US right now or bigger than Trump and she. and that is I don't know if she can afford to lose Apple and I don't think Trump can challenge the cult of iOS. I think it's bigger than MAGA. Your thoughts? Well, I think you're getting really towards my thesis which is that Apple is stuck here. I mean, there is no obvious move where they're going to move to India or move to the US particularly because neither of the superpowers wants them to do that, right? Xiinping can easily put up lockers for uh Chinese visas that would be required for people to go to India to sort of replicate this skill set in India. Um and he al also put up lockers um for Chinese-made machinery uh to go to the Indian production lines. Uh meanwhile, Trump has just made it clear in sort of less sophisticated sense of just I don't want you doing that. Um so you know the thesis of the book is really that Apple is stuck. It's stuck in a quagmire of its own making to some degree. I wouldn't quite agree that Apple is sort of bigger than either of those companies. I think if it's a bargaining chip between them, it's Beijing's bargaining chip rather than Washington's, which maybe takes a moment to digest, but that's an astonishing state of affairs. It's not really an astonishing statement. It's a banal statement, but it's an astonishing state of affairs that America's greatest company is really more in the hands of our greatest adversary than uh anyone else. But I really don't know what the counterargument would be. I mean, 90% of the production is in China. But it strikes me that if we just start to game theory this out that the pivot point here, the fulcrum or the the agent of chaos here is Trump. Yes. Way more of a threat to Apple than Xinping. Yeah. That Apple's humming along. They have kind of a mutually beneficial ecosystem and relationship with shei and China. Actually something that if I read your stuff correctly has been enormously mutual beneficial. was kind of the the probably the most productive profitable form of capitalism in history is the one between Apple and an autocracy that's created the most profitable product in history that each brought unique skills to IP design on the h uh part of Apple and advanced manufacturing capability to scale we've never seen before in any other product. I'm not even sure World War II could match some of the production capabilities that have been demonstrated by Apple and China. And that Tim Cook, let me ask you this. I'm getting into geopolitics right now, but we're talking about what is oftenimes or has been the world's most valuable company. Isn't Tim Cook's play here just to kiss his ass or pretend to kiss Trump's ass and wait him out and everything stays the same? So certainly, I mean, that was Trump's that was Cook's strategy in Trump 1.0. 0 right Trump sort of famously said that Cook had promised three big beautiful plants in America um you know it's been what eight years zero zero such plants have emerged so he just ran out the clock on Trump's presidency and I think that's what they're trying to do again because you know if you're Certino I think you realize to some extent that um that Trump is a is a press release sort of uh president right he likes the optics of things he doesn't necessarily need to be patient and wait for the reality of it so in February you know getting ahead of the tariffs. Um Tim Cook and Apple put out a statement saying they were investing $500 billion in America. Um this is basically nonsense. Um I don't know how exactly it is nonsense, but my running theory is that what they are counting as $500 billion includes buybacks and dividends. So if you look at how big Apple is, they literally spend more than a hundred billion dollars of their own money each year on share buybacks. So you multiply that by four, you've already accounted for 80% of the investment. Um, now maybe they have to do some math to figure out what, you know, 65 70% of shareholders are in America. So it doesn't count for that whole figure, but there's way less than meets the eye the than the idea of $500 billion being rested re reinvested in America to reshore jobs uh here. If that were a figure that was as clear as the White House has taken it to be, right? Howard Lutnik, um Scott Basant, uh the uh White House press secretary and Trump have all said that like this is quite a coin coin coin of change. What's the change of coin? I'm trying to think of what the press secretary said. She's she's a chunk of change. Chunk of change. She said it's quite a chunk of change, right? Um for for Apple to be investing in America. So, in other words, they have very much taken it to be a half trillion dollar investment in the country for reshoring jobs. The press release is very careful. It never actually says that, but unless you're reading it with an air of there's something off here, that is the message you would come away thinking. Um, and it's not the first such press release. A few years before that, Apple had said they would spend $430 billion on the same thing. So, I'm just mentioning that because it's not a factor of, oh, we just give them some time. It's only been a few months. If this number was credible, you'd see Apple factories and entire industrial clusters being brought up here, there, everywhere, probably needing so many jobs that people would be like, you know, flooding into the country. I mean, this none of this is happening. And so if my buybacks theory is wrong, fine. Tell me what the other theory is because the math doesn't add up. My sense is that if you look at Apple stock, all right, since uh since the election, it's uh okay, inauguration. So it's off about 15%, I think it was about or 20%. So it has taken a hit since Trump became elected. And some of that is the broader market, but some of it is also the existential risk to Apple. But when you if you really think about what would be what would be involved, it it sounds to me like almost near impossible for Apple to divest from China at this point and that if they were forced to do that or if his largest market, which I think is like half the revenue, Apple's half the revenue is US. If I just don't think the market is taking Trump that seriously right now for me, I look at the I look at how the market's reacting and the market is saying, "Yeah, this is a pain in the ass. It's a distraction. it'll cost them some share and some valuable management bandwidth. But we don't believe this is really an existential threat that the economics here are so lucrative and that Trump has such a lack of focus and will given oh it's 145% on China. Just kidding. It's 30%. It's that the market seems to be saying yeah this is a nuisance and annoyance but it's not really an existential threat to to Apple. Your thoughts? I agree. But, you know, I quote someone saying, "The relationship Apple has with China could blow up any day." Well, good luck sort of pricing that into your models because we don't know when it's going to blow up. And we Trump's such an erratic character that I mean, honestly, how do you put him into an Excel sheet of of what the value should be in a year? Um, I mean, the the scariest thing in a sense of of Trump's tweet the other day or Truth Social when he talked about 25% tariffs on a specific product, you know, the iPhone, I don't think that's ever been done in history before. um was at least 25%. In other words, if Tim Cook isn't playing ball, then the figure could go up quite a bit. And obviously, you know, Trump has to some extent added credibility to that claim by by playing with tariffs so much. To some extent, of course, he's also destroyed that claim by offering 90-day reprieves and such. And I mean, Tim Cook is in such a bind here because you got to remember a couple things like one, Trump has said that this will take place I think at the end of June. I mean, supply chains do not move at the speed of weeks. I mean, this is a ludicrous demand. Uh, obviously, I mean, I assume the Trump administration doesn't actually expect the factories to be built by then, so much as there's a there's a concept of a plan to use Trump's language by then. But the other thing is that Apple doesn't manufacture anything themselves. So, it's not only that you have to convince Tim Cook, it's that Tim Cook would have to convince Foxcon and probably hundreds of other suppliers if you genuinely wanted to build things here. And of course, none of them see the certainty of, you know, the Trump presidency lasting, of the tariffs on China lasting, or any number of things. And they would know that we're not going to be able to fill our our factories if they're placed in Pittsburgh because that's nothing like Jung Jo or Shenzhen or Sujo. So there's just so many complicating factors here that basically favor the status quo, I suppose you could say. And I guess the timing of my book, which obviously not through anything I did, is is sort of um insane, is that I'm pointing out that not only are the business ties between Apple and China unbreakable, but the political ties are totally untenable. I mean your average American just should not be happy with the idea that we are still sending America's best engineers to hundreds of factories across the country to train them up on a host of electronics which as we've already spoke about can go well beyond uh the China's dominance in EVs and iPhones and and and a number of other things. So what are they supposed to do here that that's at all a a good move? And you know, if you'd like an analogy that I'm sort of stealing from Henry Kissinger, you know, he points out the Westerners play chess. And when you play chess, you do something like Trump did about Huawei, right? He tried to go after Huawei, sort of take out China's biggest company, deprive them of 5G access, deprive them of Google services, and that company nearly collapsed, but unfortunately came back with a vengeance for for the current administration. But China plays a game called Go. And in Go, there is no final move. you instead encircle your enemy to such a degree that they're basically unable to make any meaningful moves. And that is where I see Tim Cook and Apple right now. They do not have any meaningful moves other than digest a 25% tariff and hope that Trump doesn't raise it even further. You brought up something I hadn't considered and that is China might get or is getting in the way of a transition of any production to India and my understanding is China sees themselves as a very strong ally of Pakistan. India less so. I would imagine that China and India see themselves as the same type of competitive threat as the US now perceives China. It I hadn't considered that. So China is purposely getting in the way of the transition of manufacturing capability to India and how real or elucery or jazz hands is Apple's statement that they're trying to they're trying to divest out of China and into India. So a couple things to unpack there. So the reporting that China was putting up all these blockers came out of publications like Rest of World and Bloomberg in January. Um so that's uh that's certainly happening. Um the line that I would use is that China wants technology transfer to be a one-way gate. The information comes in, it does not leave. Um in so far as it leaves at all, they want it to be Chinese companies like Luxair, Gortech, BYD. Those are the companies that are doing some work in India but even they they are not really finding it all that easy to do. Um so there's that and then when we're talking about iPhone assembly going to India people are often conflating and Apple in a sense I think knows that they're going to conflate this and and therefore it it helps their PR. They're conflating assembly with genuine production. So if there are a thousand uh steps in building an iPhone and the final one is now happening in India that is enough that is enough legally to say made in India on the box. All you need is a substantive change to the product for that for that to be the case. But the phone is not any less dependent on the Chinacentric supply chain than any other iPhone you've ever seen or purchased. So this is really just about tariff reduction and Apple has been doing iPhone assembly in India since 2017. That was always about tariff reduction. It was just about Narendra Mod's tariffs on products coming to China and now it's about Donald Trump's tariffs. But if you're looking for real substantive moves that demonstrate Apple understands there's a geopolitical threat in Xiinping and they've derisked honestly there is nothing. there's tariff reduction and there's moving some assembly to uh Vietnam because it's cheaper and they and they faced some labor issues a decade ago. But in terms of have they really derisked because they see a threat, I don't see any meaningful moves anywhere. We'll be right back. Support for PropG comes from HubSpot. HubSpot is taking on the fundamental myth in business software that you need dozens of different tools to succeed. You don't. You only need one that actually works. With HubSpot's powerful AI solution, Breeze, built right into their customer platform, you have everything you need all in one place. Breeze C-pilot acts like a digital wingman that keeps you two steps ahead. While Breeze agents take entire work streams off your plate that's not AI vaporware, that's leverage. We're talking about real ROI. Cutting sales cycles in half, resolving service tickets faster, and working less hours every week to make it all happen. Go to hubspot.com/ai to get started [Music] today. The support for the show comes from Smalls Cat Food. We all like the finer things in life from time to time. And for some of you, that might mean treating yourself to a special meal. And for others, that might mean treating your cats to a special meal because they deserve the world, especially after a long day of doing absolutely nothing. And Smalls Cat Food is here to help. Smalls Cat Food has proteinpacked recipes made with preservative free ingredients you'd find in your fridge. And it's delivered right to your door. And now you can add other cat favorites, including amazing treats and snacks, to your Smalls order. The team at Smalls is so confident your cat will love their product that you can try it risk-free. That means they will refund you if your cat won't eat their food. What are you waiting for? Give your cat the food they deserve for a limited time only because you are the Prop Listener. You can get 35% off Smalls, plus an additional 50% off your first order by using our code ProfG G. That's an additional 50% off when you head to smalls.com and use promo code profg. Again, that's promo code propg for an additional 50% off your first order, plus free shipping at smalls.com. We're back with more from Patrick McGee. So, I'm I'm fascinated with the notion, and it's it's it seems obvious in plain in in hindsight or in plain sight now, that that this incredible upskilling of the Chinese manufacturing base under the behest of Apple's incredible investment in um you know, unbelievable an unbelievable complex product that we taught them how to fish, so to speak. I'm curious if and how you can can make the connection between Apple or Apple's upskilling of the Chinese manufacturing base and what is from what I understand delivering on the promise of Tesla but isn't in fact Tesla it's BYD. Is there a direct connection between this upskilling and BYD? Yes. Uh short answer. So when Tesla wants to expand manufacturing to um Shanghai in particular, they propose this is in the book by the way uh we'll build a factory in 24 months and the mayor of Shanghai says essentially make it 12 uh you know we'll do whatever we can to accelerate this shift. This is all happening uh within 24 months of Tim Cook explaining to top leaders in in China uh just how the Apple model works and why it is superior to the joint venture model. Um, so Shanghai officials basically want Tesla to be the apple of the electric vehicle world. Sometimes when people push back about about this, they'll they'll say that doesn't make sense. You didn't need Tesla for the EV market in China. EVs go back to 2001 in China. And that's true. They do not successfully. Uh, you know, by 2012, 2013, there are something like 30,000 EV buses in Shenzhen alone. And so one city has more EV buses than the rest of uh really the world. I mean certainly there's not anything like that in North America or Europe at the time. But even by 2019 the share of EVs for the China market is less than 5%. So EVs might have a long history in in China. They don't have a successful history. What really changes the game is that Tesla adopts the Apple model. Okay. I speak to someone that runs Capeex for the Shanghai Gigafactory in the book who specifically says he hired Apple people to execute the same playbook and they go to a whole bunch of factories to improve and localize the supply chain. BYYD is one of those suppliers. CL battery giant is one of those suppliers and so they train them how to do everything that's necessary to build a Tesla and then those companies use the upskilling that they've received to improve the rest of the Chinese market. So in China this is actually called the catfish effect. Um, it's sort of misleading, but it's interesting enough that I'll quickly go through it for you. So, the idea, it's sort of based on a myth, is that a Norwegian fisherman realized that, um, catfish, no, am I getting this right? Have you read the book? Now, now I'm wondering if I'm getting it wrong. Catfish and No, sardines. Okay, so sardines, if they're kept alive when you when you catch them and bring them back to shore, um, are tastier and therefore more expensive if if they're kept alive. The problem is they just sit in a tank and die as you take them back. So the catfish effect is throwing a catfish into the tank and then they sort of Darwinian style struggle for their own survival, keep themselves alive, um, and therefore they're they're they're a tastier bet. So the catfish effect in China is why don't we throw Tesla into the mix and through a sort of inspiration of doing a better job, they will improve the whole ecosystem. Great analogy. I think it's somewhat misleading because it's missing the fact that this isn't just inspiration. This isn't just people think EVs at large are cool because Tesla's cool. they're missing the Apple uh playbook which is that Tesla is literally um upskilling all of the suppliers and then you know frankly for its own benefit but then it benefits the entire ecosystem. So at what point do EVs really take off? It's within 24 months of Tesla setting up the Shanghai Gigafactory to such a degree that even before tariff man became president Biden put 100% tariffs on Chinese EVs. So in other words, the influence of of Apple and Tesla on the EV sector, I think is, you know, deserving of academic scrutiny and so forth. And I would love for someone to be able to pinpoint it more, but I think it's extraordinary. I mean, it all comes down to this tension it between short-term capitalism or believing in free trade and thinking that you want China to succeed and that if they can make products more inexpensively and we can focus on the IP, the average assembly worker, I think at Foxcon makes, I don't know, five or six grand a year or 10 grand and the average person at Apple makes 200 grand a year. that this is a mutually beneficial ecosystem with comparative advantage or and I'm curious if if you were advising um US policy or we are trading off long-term strategic advantage by upskilling an adversary and we should bite the bullet and have higher costs and maintain that IP and that manufacturing domain expertise domestically or at least amongst you know as you said French shoring like what what would you advise because I I I can argue both and I mean this sincerely. I'm asking this question to learn not because I have a viewpoint here. I see really solid arguments on both sides. So if you look back at the last 20 years, it really has been the golden age where a company like Apple can work on the design, you know, the software and outsource all of their hardware manufacturing to a company uh sorry a country and many companies ready and willing and able to do it. The problem is the Chinese and obviously I mean you can't begudge them for this have no desire to stay at the low-end value of everything right so uh if people are familiar with the smiley curve of product development this is where like the two ends of the smile are um you know product conception and design and then you dip down into all the lowv value manufacturing stuff and then it comes back up for you know retail and branding and so forth well the Chinese don't want to just stay at those levels and so they're not right so that's why you have companies like Huawei that now do brilliant industrial design on par with and perhaps uh better than than what you're getting out of Apple. Um and we can come back to that if we need to. And so if we are just doing the design and the branding, but all of our manufacturing is dependent on obliterate country who would rather beo hosting the whole supply chain, the whole smile if you will. It puts Apple in a really precarious position because, you know, if if new roadblocks come up for Apple production or, you know, things we've seen like Chinese officials aren't supposed to use the iPhone, like Apple, Apple is just in such a a a place where at any given point if the Chinese leadership really wants their own companies to be dominant, not just in China, but globally. Um, there's not a hell of a lot stopping them. And Apple really does have no plan B. And if you think of India as plan B, but understand that actually it's a bunch of subasssembled phones from China just being put for put in for final assembly, that's not really a plan B at all. Now maybe that's the first step and in 5 10 years they have a plan B. Except the problem of course is that Beijing knows this. And so Beijing is going to make it make it difficult for them to do it. So they're in a really difficult spot. Um I think I had a second answer to that which is that on the one hand you've got the 20-year look back and on the other hand, oh yeah, this is where I get back to the integrationist world. I mean, I don't have an issue at all with with Apple or any number of multinationals working with India, with Taiwan, with South Korea, with Mexico. I mean, that's fantastic. I I think it's a total fantasy that we're going to sort of vertically integrate all this stuff just in America. But America is a nation that has many allies and free trade is a great thing. The trouble is you're doing free trade with a company that sort of uh uses and abuses free trade. Um, you know, exploits their own workers and treats these individuals as secondclass citizens. And Apple's sort of doing this for the benefit of its own company, but yeah, at the at the absolute long-term loss of all these skills. I mean, I quote someone in the book, Michael Hillman, saying, "Apple has done a tremendous job of maintaining the experiential knowhow. I mean, they know how to build this stuff. They've got proprietary processes for it. The trouble is the only place to actually execute the plans are in China. So, I don't think it's a big deal if the plans are sort of like resiliently based in India and Taiwan, sort of allied nations where we can use Apple's presence as a sort of bargaining chip and hopefully get Narendra Modi to stop playing footsie with um with Putin, things like that. But when everything's in China, I mean, not only is it obliterate nation, but it's so large that it doesn't participate in PEX Americana, it seeks to overthrow it. By virtue of of this book, I would argue have some domain expertise into US industry, Chinese industry, companies that leverage both to their advantage. Generally speaking, and I don't want you to make a stock prediction here, but coming out of this book, do you feel more bullish or bearish on the US or the Chinese stock market or business more generally? Oh, uh, it's an easy question except that you're throwing on stock market. So if we're ter you know if we're thinking about like the underlying business 20 years henceforth would you are you bearish on bearish or bullish on China and then the same question on US industry. So I'm super bullish on Chinese industry I'm super bullish on their market share but they practice a form of capitalism that doesn't prioritize profits they prioritize control right so BYD is actually you know collapsing its prices right now even though they are at a point where they probably could be raising them. So what does that mean for BYD stock price? you know, long term, I don't know. It fell on on the news of them um sinking prices the other day. So, right, so what I'm saying is I'm bullish on the Chinese industrial sector taking more and more share. I'm bullish on Chinese taking share from iPhone within Apple. What I'm from Apple, however, I don't know what that means for the stock price of Xiaomé because it's it's it's different and it's not their goal. And in fact, I would say to sort of western listeners, stop looking at industries, looking at the share of American profit and saying, look at how good we're doing. You need to be looking at things like market share because that's what the Chinese are are trying to uh control. They're not interested in in um in profit the in the way that we are. They have a drive for indigenous innovation and control. And by offering cutthroat prices, they're effectively de-industrializing all national competitors. So, Apple seems to be the tip of the spear, at least from a perception standpoint, that when Trump wakes up with the wrong blood sugar, he goes after Apple and gets angry. Uh, it seemed like Biden was putting tariffs on Chinese EVs. We've talked a little bit about Tesla and some of that technology spillover or domain expertise spillover, uh, I think you've said is also occurring among the Chinese EV market. What are what are companies three, four, and five, and do you know them? American companies that have really developed a sophisticated supply chain in China. My focus has been so much on Apple, but I'm not sure. I mean, Tesla would certainly be one of them. Tesla's in a better position because they do build cars. First of all, they do stuff on their own, right? So, yes, they have a supply chain, but they also have a lot of the IP. They actually do build stuff in a way that of course Apple doesn't. But, you know, G Gigafactory in Shanghai is their most important factory and it accounts for 50% of output. But they do have a localized supply chain in the US. They do have a localized supply chain in Germany, so they're far less exposed. They're really the most the closest to Apple. I mean, a they adopted the strategy, but b they're a hardware company, you know, worth a trillion dollars. You don't really have any other examples of that, right? Amazon, uh, Google, Meta. These are companies built on things like digital advertising, in the case of Amazon, obviously, just selling lots of stuff and being a logistics powerhouse, but nobody else rises to the level uh that Apple has, right? So, when people say, why are you picking on Apple? Well, it's the only company with $400 billion of revenue. 80% of it is hardware and 90% of that is in China. Find me another company I should be picking on of that size. make some predictions here and I won't we won't hold you to them but what if you were to say in one to three years we make predictions every year and by the way we always say we get a lot of them wrong but if you were to try and say okay I I'm I'm I'm willing to make a couple of speculative bets here about what happens and this can be about Apple or any other companies but you you I always think I've written a lot of books at the end of the book I feel like for about 10 minutes I know more about one very narrow topic than anyone in the world and then within 11 minutes someone else has written written something else that I didn't see. You right now are at the helm of the bobsled looking at the intersection between the US and the Chinese economies and our most important companies. Any thoughts on how you see this playing out? So the ones that I think are clearest where I don't have to be too uh you know crystal ballike is that Apple's market share in China is going to fall. Um it already is on track for a third year of of of declining share right now. The reasons are actually more to do with AI than anything else because Apple is not allowed to use chat GBT. Um, and Siri is to quote Satin and Delaella, dumb as a rock. So, they need a local partner in China. Um, but the the local partners like the likes of BU and Alibaba are going to work more sort of seamlessly and handinhand with the Chinese competitors. And the Chinese competitors with or without AI are really good. I mean, the best phone in the world today is a $2,800 Huawei Mate XT, and it's a little bit thicker than an iPhone, but it unfolds twice into a 10.2 in tablet. Apple doesn't have a single foldable phone. Huawei's got a double fold, right? Trifold, it's called, but it unfolds twice. I mean, that's it's just a marvel of industrial engineering. And the fact that it's $2,800 led has led critics to say like, oh, like no one's going to buy this thing. And like they're just missing the whole point. It was only 11 years ago when Johnny I was complaining about Chinese mimickry. The Chinese have really gone from mimickry to uh doing a better job on both industrial design and manufacturing than Apple. That's a remarkable change in just such a short period. So Chinese market share for Apple will will will decline. That's prediction one. Prediction two, I mean honestly I think it's the status quo in terms of where Apple's building their stuff because the most obvious thing that Apple should be doing is doing more assembly in uh in India and they need to be building out the quantities of the depth and breadth of the supply chain with India in itself. I think Apple sort of pretending to do that rather than really doing it the way that people seem to think. Um but because Trump is against it, imagine what Tim Cook's options are here. It's a like give up because you don't want the political backlash from Washington. Well, that's sort of a terrible idea or contravene the president who has any number of things he can do against you even if it's just, you know, tweeting bad stuff about you on Truth Social. So, that's a bad decision, too. Um, so I think the status quo is most likely just in terms of everything will still be built in China and America will continue to be hollowed out and de-industrialized by lacking the the sort of expertise here. Patrick McGee is an award-winning journalist who covered Apple for the Financial Times from 2019 to 2023. Previously, Patrick was a bond reporter at the Wall Street Journal. His book, Apple in China, the capture of the world's greatest company, is out now. Patrick, really enjoyed this conversation. Also, I I got such a kick out of seeing you on the Daily Show and all the attention. It's a nice moment for you. You seem like this really hardworking, super smart young man. It's just nice to see people like you succeeding and getting getting your kind of moment in the sum or what is the first of many moment. Absolutely. My career highlight. You know, we had seven people with VIP tickets that had all flown in from Canada. And I'm sorry. It's not this this isn't your career highlight, Patrick. This isn't it right here. Close second. Close second. Maybe it was in person or something. Maybe that that would change things. But anyways, Patrick, really appreciate your time. Congrats on the book. Thanks, Scott. Appreciate it. [Music] [Music]