We need to restore trust in institutions. Uh we're not all going to independently do our own research in the in the face of the next great uh challenge to our society. Um we need to have people we can trust. We need, you know, we need real air traffic controllers who can keep the planes in the air, right? And so um there's there's been a kind of disavow of expertise. [Music] Sam, where does this podcast find you? Uh, Los Angeles. I was struggling with what topics to cover, specifically what topics not to cover. So, I thought I'll basically do a buffet here and have you decide. Of all the things we're most concerned about, or of all the things to be concerned about, what are you most concerned about right now and why? Uh, I think it would have to be the way we're interacting with information, you know? I mean just is and largely this is a story of what social media and the internet generally has has done to us. But um you know you can throw into this bin the failure of of institutions and the and the pervasive lack of trust in institutions that that is uh far deeper and more widespread than than the failures of those institutions justify. Right? I mean, people are far more uh distrusting of the media than the the the errors of the woke errors of the media over the last few years justify. Um people are far more distrusting of government and the scientific establishment than the errors committed during co justify. Right? And so we've reached this kind of freef fall condition as far as I can tell especially in independent media um and over in Trumpistan. It's just a you know the physics have completely changed wherein you have um proper lunatics trusted as as the um you know as honest brokers of information. You've got people like Tucker Carlson and and uh a host of uh slightly better behaved but no less confused podcasters who I might not name here. Um and you know conspiracy theorists, people like Alex Jones. I mean these people are in good standing right or center. Um and it's um it's bonkers. And so I I I fear that we are in a position increasingly where we're rendering rendering ourselves ungovernable um or or you know governorable only by you know uh half the population willing to to get absorbed into a a personality cult and and continuously fed lies. Um, and it's just a, you know, I don't know how we would respond to the next proper emergency. You know, if 9/11 happened now, if a pandemic, you know, worse than COVID happened now, if a real war happened now, um, I think we're we're in a society that is just riven by misinformation and uh, frank dishonesty. and um you know it's so it's just a it's a very dark picture I think that of us politically at the moment. Do you see any sources or paths to repair? Well, I do think we we have to figure out how to reboot trust in institutions which is you know obviously a two-sided problem that the institutions themselves have to um become trustworthy. uh and you know the Trump administration is making that hard now by launching an all-out assault on them um in ways that that you know if if the purpose was to make them trustworthy you would go about it very differently right I mean I I you know I share the concern that the Ivy League and and other universities you know failed to deal with the explosion of anti-semitism and frank moral confusion that happened after October 7th um but if that was your concern if your if your concern was to deal with merely deal with the ideological capture of so many of these departments and the administrators and talk some sense into them, you wouldn't go about it the way the Trump administration is. Uh so we need to restore trust in institutions. Uh we're not all going to independently do our own research in the in the face of the next great uh challenge to our society. Um we need to have people we can trust. we need, you know, we need real air traffic controllers who can keep the planes in the air, right? And so, um, there's there's been a kind of disavow of expertise, especially in independent media, especially on podcasts, um, as though any, you know, comedian who's a quick study and and, you know, can can use chat GPT can be an expert on the war in Ukraine or, uh, the Israeli Palestinian conflict um, or epidemiology or whatever it is. And it's um it's a free-for-all out there. And I just so we're going to have to it may require some very clear uh catastrophes born of misinformation to u get our head screwed on straight. But you know eventually we're going to bump into some hard objects out there in the real world and we're going to want to know what real experts think about real problems and we're going to stop denying that expertise is really a thing. And again, I'm not I'm not arguing that mere credentialism is the way you find experts. That's not, you know, we could might might go into that if you're you're interested, but because people are confused about this, but uh the idea that everyone's opinion is worth hearing on every topic is just a colossal load of [ __ ] and and everyone knows this at bottom. And yet our our the way we interact with information is not reflecting that. And I think you share this opinion. There's been so many things I don't know if you that I thought would have been disqualifying about the Trump administration just in the last 100 days that the public would have just oh I'm you know that's it they're going to regurgitate here there's going to be real push back and there hasn't been and I've come to a very crude conclusion and maybe I shouldn't conclude it or a thesis I should say that America would rather have an autocrat a kleptocrat than a weak party and I saw a survey yesterday that said if the election if the election were held yesterday even knowing what we know so are in the Trump administration that he would still win. Yeah. I'm curious what underlying or what shifts in the ground you you felt led to his reelection and what's happened since then and why it just doesn't seem as if there's anything that can actually be disqualifying. Well, on that last point, I I think I'm as confused as anyone. I mean again there are a thousand things any one of which would have totally wrecked the presidency of any other American president. I mean this is something that President Obama remarked on from some stage recently where he just said you know can you imagine me doing any of these things and then he went through a short list of things uh again any one of which would have been a national scandal. I mean, it just would have the news cycle would have never stopped uh ruminating on just how appalling that thing was. Whether it's launching a memecoin, which is a device calculated to accept bribes from from crooks and and uh foreign agents uh and to, you know, to very quickly reap hundreds of millions of dollars in in profits thereby, you know, grifting your your credulous cult. That's just one thing. one of one of I mean it sounds hyperbolic to say a thousand but that's conservative there there's well more than a thousand things Trump has done in the last 10 years said or done that would be perfectly disqualifying in another candidate or another president. Um I mean the memecoin is is such such a shocking act of of corruption. It's amazing we don't have very clear laws against it. Apparently we don't. Um and we're just discovering that. So the the job of the next president whoever that or or I should say the next sane and and uh ethical president whenever we get such a person uh may not be in the next round obviously um that person's job is going to in my view is going to be to do a post-mortem on this decade of American history uh political history and try to figure out how we never become vulnerable to this kind of thing again. I mean we clearly we need a system that is immune is as immune as a system can be to the private derangement and corruption of a bad actor. Right? Because we we've proven ourselves as a population, as a citizen citizenry, perfectly capable of electing a patently unqualified, malicious, vindictive, and and morbidly selfish person to the highest office in the land. Uh we did that. I mean, we we we can wonder why we did that, but we we we we've proved to ourselves and to the world that we're capable of doing that twice, right? right? We're capable of electing a person who we knew last time around tried to steal the election and lied about it having been stolen from him and and told this lie uh again and again as a continuous provocation to to political violence on the part of his cult. And um all of this is so weird and so and so um destructive of the the faith that that so many people have have had in the stability of our system of governance that of governance that um yeah I think we have to figure out what laws we should have had that to to backs stop some of the norms we thought were in viol which Trump and and his administration have violated. So I mean I'm totally mystified as to why people aren't as allergic to these norm violations as as we are. I mean there's just it's again there's you could name I could easily name dozens here off the you know off the cuff. Um but it's uh I mean take take just adjacent to the memecoin the fact that that we now are a country where in the president is using our foreign policy our tariff policy to uh privately personally enrich himself. you know, when when we slap a 46% tariff on Vietnam, the Vietnam's response to to mitigate that harm to their economy is to uh invite Elon to give them internet service through Starlink, right? So that's clearly an a conflict of interest and and a moment of self-deing there on the part of the administration. But then also to greenlight a 1.5 billion dollar resort of from from the Trump administration, right? Or from the Trump family. Um it's just how you know people in in a perfect world people would go to jail for this, right? I mean and so I just don't know how our system is this vulnerable. It's it's quite shocking. It's pretty obvious that the system at least in the short term is not does not have the resilience to arrest this or cauterize it. And I think a lot of Democrats um are disappointed there hasn't been a more robust push back. If you were advising the Democratic party on how to be more effectively or robustly push back on what's going on, assuming the institutions aren't going to solve the problem right now, what advice would you give? Well, that's very hard. It's It's hard to see what they can do. I mean, Cory Booker standing up for 25 hours and talking um doesn't move the needle as far as I can tell. I mean, there may be nothing to do short of winning the the midterms decisively. And for that, I just think the Democrats have to learn the lesson, the obvious lesson of the of the presidential election in 2024, which is that the far-left activist class of the party has no advice worth listening to. Right? Their concerns are bogus. Their uh convictions are scarcely sane. They have to be ignored. I I view Harris's loss as overdetermined, but she clearly lost based on her efforts to to maintain something like a, you know, a game of fourdimensional chess with woke identity politics, right? I mean, she was at a minimum, she was unable to to properly dis disavow some of the crazy things she had said in in 2019 and 2020 and just whenever whenever put on the spot was was either completely tongue-tied and just stonewalling or she just produced something some sort of woke word salad. Um, and it was obvious that she couldn't be let loose on Joe Rogan's podcast for fear of what she might say uh over the course of three hours. um that caution, that sense that you can't there all these third rails you can't touch otherwise the um the inter intersectional maniacs will come for you on X. That spell has to be totally broken and I I'm I'm hopeful that it has been, but I've yet to see real evidence of it. I mean what we need are charismatic candidates who will speak uh in you know adlib and at length uh and in um in in with a perfectly carefree attitude with respect to the you know all the the various shibles that gave us wokeness over the last you know decade or so. I mean, it's just that all of that has to be uh just um continuously violated with abandon. And I'm not saying that we suddenly turn into into bigots, but there's clearly a line uh that protects the, you know, any sane political commitment to social justice of a sort that we, you know, that could have come out of the the mouth of someone like Martin Luther King Jr. um which has us uh speaking insanely about things like immigration and uh you know youth, gender dysphoria, etc. uh in ways that don't won't alienate half of American society. And we we have to do that immediately and we have to find the stars in the in the Democratic party who stand a chance of of getting elected to Congress and to the presidency in in the next elections. I think it's fair to say that the Democrats have their hearts in the right place, but they go too far and then they kind of invite an overreaction and that's sort of playing out here. Yeah. I mean, so in that sense, I find the the left fairly culpable for Trump and Trumpism, right? And I just think it's it was it was obvious what should have been said about all of these cultural cultural war issues. Uh that would have been um acceptable and sane even even if it departed from what the far right wants. It wouldn't have it wouldn't have been a continuous SNL sketch of of um identitarian moral confusion. Right. And so given that the party got that captured by these which was effectively a new religion of of um at the center of which was a kind of moral panic. I mean the idea that in the aftermath of a two-term black presidency um not only had we made no progress on race issues in this country, racism was somehow at its most excruciating high tide, right? like like it's it's just everything was wrong. Systemic racism was everywhere. And you know, I mean, Joe Joe Biden gave a speech, I think it was to Morehouse College very early in his presidency, um, which was the most delusional piece of of uh pandering to the far left on this particular issue. I mean, he stood up in front of you these these black graduates uh and said, you know, the deck is so stacked against you. You're not only going to have to be the best, you're going to have to be better than the best to to get get your foot in the door in this society. It's so poisoned by racism. And he said this at a time when everyone, literally everyone, knew that not only was this not true, the opposite was true. If you're a if you're a at all qualified, if you're a a black graduate of a of a good institution in the year, you know, this I guess was 20 21, the chance that you were going to get into medical school or get into get a job at Netflix or get into, you know, get a job at the Ford Foundation or whatever, the Bill and Meinda Gates Foundation, anywhere in any high status job, right, or or position in academia was not only not harmed by being black, it you were positively advantaged by being black. Every literally everyone knew this. They had known it for years. And yet the president of the United States is telling a the graduating class of a black college that they're they're they're under the boot of of a racist um uh you know, patriarchy. Undoubtedly, he would have added the v variable of of gender as well if he'd been given the chance. I mean, it's just it was pure delusion and everyone knew it. And so I I think that that bell has to be unrungg somehow left or center. I think it's in in the process of being I think we're we no longer believe this stuff and DEI is now um you know the the acronym is is um radioactive. I think for good reason. Um, again, none of this is to repudiate uh a commitment to to civil rights and none of it's to ignore that there are still real racists in our society and real threats of racism and probably policies that that you know meet the test of of institutional racism that still need to be found and changed. I mean, all of that's true, but this tip over into reverse racism, which really was what DI became, DEI became, um, was totally dysfunctional and unethical and and yeah, I mean, it gave us in large measure it gave us Trumpism. Do you distinguish between DEI efforts on campuses where you know 60 years ago Harvard, Princeton, Yale, 12 black people combined, that's a problem. But now 60% of Harvard's freshman class identifies as non-white versus the corporate world where we still have I think about 80 of the Fortune 500 CEOs or 16% are women that there still are a lot of companies who their boards and their CEOs and their senior management just are much different than their broader employee base or their customer base. Do you make any distinction between kind of DEI and how far it's gone or not gone between academic institutions? Well, I think it's a a complex problem and I think it changes depending on the context and the the identity uh you're talking about, right? So for like women in the workplace, there's the obvious variable of, you know, women deciding to have families, getting pregnant, and that and the the asymmetry there, what happens to them versus what happens to men who, you know, ride shotgun with them and and also get to have families. um that has obvious consequences and I think you know that you know the the wage gap uh I what I imagine is true is that if you correct for the effect of of you know losing those years of your life to to uh uh pregnancy and raising kids um you know that that closes the wage gap and it it and it also probably accounts for the some of the differing ambitions between men and women um and that and those are differences that we might not want to correct for In the end, we might want some other way of of correcting for it. I mean, I think it's it's hard to know what is optimal there. I don't the idea that every person is you just wants to be a CEO really at bottom and wants to make the sacrifices that entails. I think that's um you know, probably not true and and it's probably good that is very good that it's not true. You know, I I just think we had a moment in the 60s where a fairly heavy-handed approach to to um writing the wrongs of the past was warranted, right? And so I think I think it was totally I think our our approach to affirmative action then was totally justifiable. And then we entered a period where it it um it did all the good it could do and it started doing some obvious harms, right? And I think it's, you know, what for me the goal is quite clear and and it is a goal that that people like Martin Luther King Jr. explicitly articulated, which is we want to get to a color-blind society, which is not to say that it's a society where no one notices, you know, the superficial characteristics between people, but that those characteristics don't matter, right? That there's no political or moral significance to the color of a person's skin. We want to get to that world. And we were and are I think very close to getting to that world. Uh some of us live in that world already. I mean some you know in in high status parts of culture for much of the time that's that's how you experience life. Um and I'm sure it is in other parts of culture. But uh in so far as we haven't perfectly gotten there we want to get there. The problem with the far left is that they that they explicitly have disavowed that as the goal. They don't think colorblindness is a rational goal. What they want to do is play this intersectional game of of um you know power politics across identity groups uh wherein you know white males have the least rank uh and is so you just flip the you flip every the hierarchy on its head and they want to prosecute this war of all against all until the end of time. Right? again this goal and and the disavowel of of color blindness has been explicit. Uh they think there's no there's no getting over race. race is just just super important and super um indelible and and therefore it's we've been living in a society again I I think this the vapors of this lunacy are are getting expuned but um uh it may take some years yet but you know rolling back the clock prior to to the 2024 election we were living in a world where left of center people people cared about race as much is the the only people right of center who cared about race as much as the left wing of the of the Democratic party are white supremacists and neo-Nazis and actual racists. I mean that was that was what was so perverse about this. There were there were documents issued by de you know like the the Democratic party itself and certainly every activist group supporting it which if you had done a search replace for white and black in those documents they would have read like Kulux Clan pamphlets from the the early 20th century right it's just it was completely bonkers and how we lived so long under that mania is is is again is another one of these inscrutable things I mean we can now say the same thing about Trumpistan. I mean, how is it that all of this is passing among otherwise sane people? It's a mystery, but it's, you know, it the the left is is largely culpable for this pendulum swing into populist no nothingism and um you know, this the way immigration got weaponized. I mean, all yes, there were there were both both sides accounted for how we got here. We'll be right back. Support for the show comes from SoFi Small Business Lending. You're a small business owner. You need capital to find new opportunities and grow. And you can do that with help from SoFi. You might know SoFi for student loans and high interest savings. But now they help small businesses, too. No more chasing bankers or wasting time in a branch. SoFi's small business marketplace is your new go-to fast and digital solution. In one single simple search, SoFi matches you with vetted providers for your business in just minutes. You can discover options that meet your specific needs. And if you find a quote that works for you, you may receive funds as soon as the same day you're approved. Say it's working capital you need or a line of credit or an SBA loan or equipment financing. SoFi's marketplace can help you find all of the above. It's already helped thousands of small businesses find the funding they need. SoFi also offers business owners curated tools, vetted business bank accounts, business credit card recommendations, and a ton of resources to help you scale your business like a boss. SoFi, now helping you get your business right. Visit sofi.com/propgod and see your options in minutes. Support for the show comes from Grooms. If you've ever gone down the rabbit hole of trying different nutrition solutions, you've likely had the thought, "Surely there's a way to improve my skin, gut health, immunity, and brain fog without offending my taste buds." Well, there is. It's called Grun. Gruns are a convenient, comprehensive formula packed into eight delicious gummies a day. It's not a multivitamin, a greens gummy, or a prebiotic. It's all of those things and then some at a fraction of the price. In a Grun's daily snack pack, you get more than 20 vitamins and minerals, plus more than 60 whole food ingredients, all of which help you out in different ways. For example, Gruns has six times the gut health ingredients compared to the leading green powders like biotin and nioinamide, which help with thicker hair, nails, and skin health. They also contain mushrooms, which can help with brain function. And of course, you're probably familiar with vitamin C and how great it is for your immune system. On top of all that, Gruns are vegan and free of nuts, dairy, and gluten. Get up to 45% off when you go to grun.co and use code propg. That's grs.co using code propg for 45% off. So, you live in LA. I went to college in LA at UCLA and in 1997 they did away with race-based affirmative action and they would move to kind of an adversity score which is essentially the way I can best describe it would be affirmative action based on income as opposed to race or sexual orientation. Do you think that's a good model or are you are you part of the the kind of merit only philosophy? No, I think I mean I'm very worried as I I know you are about wealth inequality um and income inequality. I think wealth inequality more so. Um and I think correcting for that is an intrinsic good. I think that this is a real disparity in in luck that that uh pe you know people suffer everywhere you know within our society and across societies. Um, and in so far as we can cancel it, I mean, you know, I don't think I think we should be tolerant of a certain amount of inequality because I think that is it is part of the flywheel of capitalism that some people can get up earlier in the morning and strive harder and, you know, miss dinners with their kids and earn, you know, uh, more money as a result because they just had that entrepreneurial uh, ambition. Um, I think we want to preserve that. I think we want all the incentives that if there if there's a better incentive structure than capitalism, but we we haven't found it yet for producing wealth and and and creativity. Um again, that we all benefit from, even the lazy benefit from it. Uh but no, there are people who uh were born to immense advantages that others don't have and we should try to figure out how to um correct for that. And and one of the disadvantages historically in the United States certainly has been the the you know the ambient level of racist bigotry and and and an exclusion from from economic opportunity on that basis. Right. So yes, I mean I think it's still true to say that black families have on average one uh eighth the level of of stored wealth as uh as white families. Um and one must imagine that the legacy of racism has a lot to do with it. I the crucial thing to realize however is that the thing that is stopping any person from uh getting ahead now is very unlikely to be racism now. Right? So that's that's the thing that was so misguided about so much of DEI thinking. Right? It's like like you know if you if you wave a magic wand and get rid of all the racists uh you're still not going to suddenly have um more um you know Fortune 500 uh people you more more members of the black community who are qualified to be Fortune 500 CEOs or cardiologists or uh etc. So um there are economic disparities there are which are riding on top of uh educational disparities and disparities in health outcomes and you know single parent families at a much higher rate etc. um and all of that, you know, but but if you use class as your your proxy for all of your other concerns about um disparities of outcome, again, educational, health, etc. Um, I think you do a lot of good and you also disproportionately help people of color because as a, you know, class they're their identity, the various identity groups are highly correlated with with disparities in in class. It's a big overlap. Yeah. Yeah. So, we're both dads. Um, you know, we we think a lot about and write a lot about and speak a lot about the struggles of young men right now. They they're just as as well and as much advantage as as men have registered over the last, you know, several hundred, couple thousand years, um, the last 20, 30 years, it would be hard to point to a group that's done worse in America than young men. I'm curious as a dad and as someone who's a keen observer of culture and society, what do you think has led to this? And any thoughts as a dad or just someone as an observer on how um what we can do or what society assuming you agree it's a problem can do to help sort of write the ship around young men you know again starting to participate or be more productive members of society. Well, I must say as a father of two girls, uh one uh in her teens and one soon to be, it's very easy for me to be taken in by the the view of young men as just rapacious hoodlams who who need to be viewed as a problem. Um but I can dimly remember that I was once a young man and uh I I know this this problem from the other side obviously. Um, no, I mean, I think you have been a a great voice of of uh reason on this topic and a counterpoint to many of the uh the examples that are are getting um that are serving as as as sort of pathological attractors to young men in our society. I mean, people like Andrew Tate, right? Like you you know, you're you're like the anti-andrew Tate. Um and you know, that's a good thing. thing. I mean, we need we need more people like you who are modeling masculinity in a way that is ethical and um and just just kind of conversant in the in the skill set you want young men to be conversant in. Right. I mean, it's it's really it's amazing if you kind of hold your body of work up against, you know, the the Andrew Tatification of uh similar topics. It's um you know you're you're checking similar boxes, right? I mean it's like it's all you know economic independence is you know is one variable but when you when you look at what is is when you look at the diabolical version of it, it is all about just the the most um obscene materialism, right? Without any any deeper aspiration, right? without any ethical engagement with the problems of of this world. It's just if you can get a Bugatti, you know, or rent one in Dubai, you know, and pretend and and pretend to your, you know, fans that you that this is your lifestyle. Um, you're uh you've basically accomplished everything you need in life, right? I mean, that's and and so that that is something that we need to to offer a counterpoint to. And um I think you're doing that. And I think you're doing a great job of it. I think you're being generous, but if you think about No, I mean, honestly, not. I mean, it's just you're there. Um, I think you do a fantastic job of uh putting the lie to the notion that that money can't buy you happiness in any sense, right? I mean, we we know that's not true. We know that being poor or being subject to not even poor but just having financial stress be a major component of your life. We know that's corrosive to a feeling of of well-being and we know it's corrosive to marriages and relationships and uh and so you you know you have taken the taboo off of talking about wealth in an aspirational way. Uh, and you found a way of doing it that's not icky, that's not um, uh, that doesn't disregard the problem of wealth inequality and the ethical burden of, you know, being generous and and creating a a social safety net and paying taxes and, you know, everything in that bucket that that is the antithesis of what the the president of the United States or his various acolytes like Elon Musk message about. I mean, it's just it's it's counterprogramming that that's absolutely necessary and and so I you know, I view you as a great um messenger of of what it's like to be a good citizen and a good man and just just a mench. I mean, the word we have the the only good word we have for it is is is Yiddish. You know, is you're a mench. So, keep it up. Let me just say I'm really enjoying this podcast so far, Sam. Um, so look, men, young men are going to look up to just naturally the president of the United States and the world's wealthiest man. And I don't think Donald Trump, I'm not sure Donald Trump was ever what you would call an aspirational man or a good person. But my sense is, and you've written about this, Elon Musk you were friends with and had a lot of admiration for, and I think you had a similar type of relationship with Joe Rogan. And then and and I see one of the things I love about America is I do think there's a zeicist guidepost a natural gravity towards once you experience success it becomes correlated with trying to be kinder or start to think bigger picture about leaving your mark on society in a positive way. Even the robber barons at some point flipped the the script and said what can I build here with my wealth that would serve society well. Yeah. And it seems as if those rivers have reversed and that some of our most powerful people as they get more powerful or a broader platform don't evolve but digress. And I I'm Do you have any sense for why that is happening now across some of our most powerful and influential men? Yeah. Well, I I think a just a few people can do a lot of harm to the culture, right? I mean you have in in the person of Elon just this unique example of somebody who um has so many obvious genuine gifts. I mean you know above all as an entrepreneur I mean he he's clearly has a vision and can sell that vision to to lots of talented people to you know tens of thousands of talented people who want who will you know you know stumble over themselves to get a chance to work for him. and um they can do some amazing things, right? So he's so he's aspirational and a great model of of success in that regard. But, you know, he's had this kind of personal unraveling which I'm at pains to explain apart from just the influence that Twitter and now X has had on his brain uh and the influence of you know fame I guess um certain kind of fame that to which he's clearly addicted that it's just encouraged him to become this very different sort of person and whether he was always this sort of person just kind of waiting to get out and I didn't see it I don't know. I mean, so I'm I'm forced to believe I one of two things. Either he's changed a lot having become the richest and one of the most famous people on earth. Um or he uh or I just didn't know him in the first place. Right. So, let me just press pause. You're you're a neocientist. Do you think Ketamine could have anything to do with it? Yeah. I mean, I So, I've I just have heard the reports that you've heard. I mean, this was reported in the Wall Street Journal. Um, if I wanted to dig in his circle, I I'm sure I could find, you know, firsthand reports of how much of that's true. But, um, yeah, if he is using ketamine as as frequently as was reported, I certainly can't help, right? I mean, he's he's um, but he's just honestly his engagement with with X um, was so dysfunctional for so long, even before he bought it. Um and and um it became his, you know, seemingly full-time preoccupation. It's just this it did something. I mean, you know, everyone who who's ever was ever addicted to it or you just too uh fixated on it has a you know, a homeopathic dose of this. I mean, they know like I you know, I got off of Twitter now um two and a half years ago because of how demonstrably harmful it was. it was proving in my life and I was never somebody who was addicted to it. I was just somebody who was using it as an author and as a you know as a a speaker and you know podcaster. I just thought it was a necessary marketing channel. It was also just very tempting to talk to other prominent people and and u you try to clean up misinformation and react to things and um so I was using it in a normal way. I mean and I do not consider Elon's use of it at all normal. Um, but it was still uh probably the worst thing I did to my life in the last 10 years, right? And and you know the and getting off of it was I'm always embarrassed to admit the best thing the best life hack I have found in the last decade. I mean, it was completely transformational of my life to get off Twitter. And that's just a sign of how uh debasing it was uh for me to use it the way I was using it. Um, and again, I was I was not a super tweeter. I was maybe, you know, uh, on average once a day or so, a couple times a day, but I would go for days without doing it. But it was still punctuating my life in a way uh, and amplifying a certain kind of signal in a way that was was proving quite harmful um, and quite disorienting. I It was just g was turning me into a a bit of a misenthrop. I mean, it was I was seeing the worst in people, you know, pretty much all the time. I mean, just whenever I looked at my phone, I was just seeing some awful piece of um uh you know, dishonesty or malice broadcast to me by people who I who I knew in their in norm, you know, certainly most of them in their in their private and even public lives were not this sort of person, but in this context, it was it was amplifying for the worst in people. And so, you know, Elon has just performed a kind of human sacrifice of himself on the altar of that of that set of incentives. And he acts like a pro, you know, whether he is a psychopath or not, he acts like one, right? And I and I'm not I'm not actually exaggerating. He acts like a psychopath on X. Um he's uh he's completely callous as to the harms he cause and all the while knowing the harms he causes uh both in the lives of private citizens who get doxed and get you know swarmed by his cult um uh and just the harm he causes in the world. I mean just his adventures in Doge when he, you know, fed on his account fed USAD into the wood chipper and stopped, you know, life-saving programs in subsaharan Africa, which people immediately recognized would would lead to death, you know, in very short order and if not corrected for hundreds of thousands, if not millions of deaths within a year, right? He the attitude he took to all of that was one of just, you know, probably, you know, fentinel addled um ecstasy, right? I mean, he was just he just reveled in the chaos he was causing. Um and so it was with his, you know, Hitler salutes, which, you know, may have not been Hitler salutes. I'm willing to give him the benefit of the doubt that he's just a [ __ ] uh who has just bad, you know, awkward body English. uh who knows what he was up to there with his my heart goes out to you and now I look like Adolf Hitler uh you know twice uh in a row but whatever his intentions when he saw the blowback when he saw how when he saw that every anti-semite on planet earth was celebrating right um he could have very easily have signaled to his 210 million what whatever it was at that point followers listen this is I I see how I see what I look like, you know, sorry, that's embarrassing. Obviously, I despise anti-semitism and if you're an anti-semite, please unfollow me, right? Like that would have been the same ethical manly thing to do, right? But instead, he just made Nazi jokes and trolled the world, right? Uh all the while uh signal boosting the accounts of real anti-semmites and bringing real anti-semites back onto the onto Twitter with great fanfare. and people like Nick Fuentes uh and also funding the farright party in Germany to to boot, right? I mean, it's just he so his his contributions to the greatest eruption of anti-semitism in our lifetime have been at best ambiguous. Um and uh yeah, he's it's just totally irresponsible. So the fact that that he is the cultural influence he has been um has been directly harmful to a generation of young men who have worshiped him. I mean I I think the greatest thing to to ding his reputation and it really should have been a fatal blow was the gaming uh controversy where he where it was revealed he was pretending to be one of the best gamers on earth. I don't know if you saw this, Scott, but um you know, a bunch of gamers saw him play one of these games in public, and it was totally clear. I'm not a gamer, so I can't get into the details here, but apparently was it was clear to to a moral certainty that uh he did not have the skills he was pretending to have. He had paid someone to build out his character, someone very likely, you know, in China to play 24 hours a day and uh build out his character to superhuman levels uh so that he could inherit all those powers and then display them ineply in front of the gamers who actually knew how to play the game. But he had gone on Joe Rogan's podcast and Lex Freiedman's podcast and lied to their face about being a top 10 and in some cases u you know the best gamer in the world on certain games and what when they lavished praise on him you know talking about what you just that that suggested that he has you know a kind of a neurological uh you know six sig sigma level you know neurological health that that uh you would predispose him to those abilities. Uh he totally owned it. It's like, yeah, you know, it's gaming as a great surrogate for all kinds of talents and yeah, it's really and it's he was lying about all that, right? So, that if anything was going to destroy his reputation with young men, I thought that was going to be it. And I think it probably did in in gaming circles. We'll be right back. Support for the show comes from NPR's Planet Money. Tariffs, the budget deficit, the difference between flying coach and business class. What ties them together? One word, money. It's the connective tissue of our lives that drives behavior, shapes culture, and reveals who we are in a tangible way. Economics isn't just inflation and GDP. It's everywhere in everything, fueling how we live. If you're looking for a smart, entertaining breakdown of how the world of money really works, check out Planet Money from NPR. It's sharp, fast, and relentlessly curious. The Planet Money hosts go to great lengths to help explain the economy. They've done things like shoot a satellite into space, become a record label, make a comic book, and short the entire stock market. All to help you better understand the world around you. If you're curious to learn something new and exciting about economics every week, listen to the Planet Money podcast from NPR. I love NPR. Grew up with it and generally find they try and call balls and strikes and think the production values are unprecedented. Tune in to Planet Money every week for entertaining stories and insights about how money shapes our world. Stories that can't be found anywhere else. Listen now to Planet Money from NPR. Support for this show comes from Smalls Cat Food. Have you seen those ads where there's a pet that looks so sad when they're forced to eat bad food? No pet wants to live like that, even if they're just being a really good animal actor. And giving your cat some actually tasty and nutritious food can get them looking great. And Smalls Cat Food is here to help your feline friend enjoy their next meal. Small Cat Food has proteinpacked recipes made with preservative-free ingredients you'd find in your fridge, and it's delivered right to your door. And now you can add other cat favorites, including amazing treats and snacks, to your Smalls order. The team at Smalls is so confident your cat will love their product that you can try it risk-free. That means they will refund you if your cat won't eat their food. What are you waiting for? Give your cat the food they deserve. For a limited time only, because you are a PropG listener, you can get 35% off Smalls, plus an additional 50% off your first order by using our code prop. That's an additional 50% off when you head to smalls.com and use promo code propg. Again, that's promo code propg for an additional 50% off your first order plus free shipping at smalls.com. [Music] It's funny, I was more offended by him having a fake account that posted a picture of him with his kid on his shoulders and having the fake account said, "You're an amazing dad, Elon." I had heard that. I just saw it. Oh my god. But I I have to credit you. You're the first time we had dinner, you gave me permission to get off of Twitter. I said, I I I acknowledge that probably 20 or 30% of my mental health episodes over the last few years had been triggered by something on Twitter. And you said, why are you there? I'm like, well, got a big following, half a million people. And I think how many did you walk away from? Uh I think I had 1.5 million when I pul pulled the the cord. and I I I got off and it you it's exactly what you said. It's been one of the most accreative things to my mental health that I've done in the last 10 years. And what you realize the thing of I'm curious if you feel this way once you're off it you're off at three or four months. You recognize just how small it is. There really is a it is a small part of the world that is occupying way too much of your world. I have no difference in my life. None. Except I'm not I don't venture into this strange moon of of Mars that's hostile and and biased and weird and angry and it's like why was I why was I vacationing there, you know, seven times a day. I'm curious, you know, I'm I've talked a lot about this a lot on the pod and when I was younger, I didn't have enough anxiety. I wasn't worried about anything. I almost failed out of UCLA several times. Didn't really care. Almost got fired a lot. Didn't really care. Sleepwalking through life. Kind of 30 to 40, the right amount of anxiety. Enough anxiety to be productive. Worry about the right things. Now I have too much anxiety. I worry about everything. Anything happens to my kids, I worry. And lately, I've had a really difficult time disassociating from things I can control and I can't control. Specifically, some of the things that are happening around the Trump administration. I mean, it's it it's like this [ __ ] really rattles me. Like, it's taking time from my presence and ability to just stay focused on the really important things in my life such as when I'm with my kids or with my partner. I'm curious if you struggle with some of those same things, your an inability to disassociate from these some of these things that are going on. And if you are able to do with it, what are the vehicles and practices for helping you do that? Yeah. Well, as you know, I think you know, meditation has been a very big focus of mine and um I mean for me that really is the it's a kind of superpower because it I mean at a certain point you recognize that your mind is all you have really. I mean obviously you have a body, you have circumstances in the world. told them things matter, but your your reaction to what happens is so much more important in in almost every case than what re than what happens. Uh there's so much um so much room for uh being on the negative side being needlessly pointlessly unhappy, right? I mean worrying when worry does absolutely no good and you you just suffer twice, right? If the bad thing h happens and you were worrying the whole time before it happened, well then you got to you got to suffer all the way up to the bad thing happening. If it didn't happen, your your worry was was truly a hallucination. But in no case does does I mean for me negative mental states like anxiety are useful in a very punctate way in that they give you information about the world or your place in the world or some you know something that needs to be responded to. But then for virtually every moment thereafter that state whether it's anxiety or anger or impatience or or um you just pick your your flavor. Um that state is almost always counterproductive right which is to say you you you want to be in a different state when you're you are actually solving the problem at hand or you're just waiting to see what happens. Right. I mean there there are many problems as you point out that we're powerless to solve and we're just kind of witnessing this kind of slow slow rolling emergency. Um the question is how unhappy do you have to be uh just living under that condition of uncertainty and the answer you find when you learn to meditate is not unhappy at all really. And so so my life is a a very strange bifurcation between having kind of a very high level of personal well-being, you know, certainly most of the time and also being very concerned about the state of our world, right? I mean, so I I spend most of my time professionally and even just, you know, personally, privately focusing on the bad things that are happening and the bad things that may yet happen, the bad things I'm I think it's rational to worry, you know, will happen or very likely will happen. Um, and yet my life is so good. I'm so it's so good in in in superficial, you know, contingent ways that could change. Much of that is born of my ability to notice what I'm doing with my attention and to cease to do the dumb thing that is causing me to be miserable in in this moment. Right. This and you get that perspective from meditation. Yeah. I mean, so you know mindfulness for lack of a better word. I mean that that does cover basically what I mean but it's something I get into in much greater detail in over at Waking Up which is the meditation app that um I have and in my book by that same title. Um but briefly it's just I mean if you're if you're suffering you are almost certainly thinking without noticing your thinking without noticing the power of thought to determine how you feel and react in each moment to to just your sensor raw sensory existence right I mean you're just you're in each moment you're just seeing hearing smelling tasting touching uh and thinking and and therefore feeling various moods and emotions. Um, and the role that thought plays there, the role that our our captivity to thought, our our unawareness of of any alternative to being identified with each thought that passes through consciousness, that role is decisive. I mean, it's every bit as decisive as, you know, when you're asleep and dreaming and you don't know you're dreaming, right? You you're safely in your bed. In in reality, you're safely in your bed, but now you're having some horrible dream that, you know, plunges you into shame, right? or or fear or some other negative mental state that that the neurology of that, right? The the the failure of reality testing, the fact that your your your conscious life can be completely subsumed by self-generated imagery. Um that is a a a a version of that is happening to us in the waking state and we call it thought, you know, we call it ourselves really. We call it me. It's like what are you talking about? It's just me here. I'm thinking I'm I'm the thinker, right? I'm you these thoughts are in in my voice, right? That's the that sense of being identified with with thought is something is is a spell that gets broken ultimately when you actually learn how to meditate. And it does give you this this degree of freedom that people otherwise don't have, which is to just just get off the ride, right? You're you're feeling miserable because you're thinking about the thing that happened yesterday or the thing that might happen tomorrow. you can actually get off that ride. Uh even if and you can get off of it even if it's if it's a real problem, right? It's like, you know, your kid has some scary illness and you're going from doctor to doctor and you don't know what what's what and you have real reason to be worried, right? I've been in that situation. You know, it's of course you're going to be unhappy. But the question is how unhappy do you have to be? How contracted do you have to be? How ruled do you have to be by your thoughts from this moment to the ne until the you get the ne the appointment next Tuesday or until you get the the results of the scan? You know, you got a scan on Friday and you know, perversely, we have a medical system that doesn't work on weekends, right? So, you you have to wait till Monday for the results of an MRI. Um, if you're lucky, uh, how how riddled by anxiety do you have to be? Meditation gives you a freedom to just actually just enjoy the beauty of your life in the meantime. Uh because you're going to you're going to be there to deal with it when you actually have to deal with it. I mean, Monday will come around and then you'll be the guy who has to absorb whatever information you get. And the question is, do you want to to do that well and to be a good father in that context? Do you want to be the guy who was just racked by anxiety all weekend or do you want to be the guy who actually had a good time with his kids on the weekend and then you get the information on Monday? Right? It's like we're all going to die. This guy, you know where this is all going, right? We're going to die. Our kids hopefully are going to live long enough to be old enough to be, you know, the ripe old age that that it's appropriate to die. But impermanence reigns, right? So the question is how can we be happy under conditions where the punchline is that everything changes right and that you that everything that is gathered gets ultimately dispersed right that's that's what's that's the situation we're in um the people who who first figured out how to meditate figured out that you that how you use attention really matters and really can spell the difference between happiness and suffering in each moment as you've gotten older the things that give you joy and peace have they changed become certain things more less I think I'm I'm a slightly odd case because I got uh very into meditation and and became very cognizant of the the finitness of life very early right so I was a you know I was probably 18 um I was I I I became kind of obsessed with my my own mortal mality earlier than that. My my best friend died when I was 13. My dad died when I was 17. Uh so so loss was was something that I um uh I understood uh fairly early and the sort of the philosophical and psychological implications of that became interesting to me very early. So I was always um kind of a student of of uh life-changing philosophy. I mean, not just, you know, purely academic questions of interest, but just like what does it mean to live a good life? Like in a context where we know we're ultimately going to lose everything. Uh, and so I was thinking about that very early. So I I can't say that that has changed. I just in some ways I'm learning relearning the lessons I learned when I was 18 and 19 and 20. Um, and they're they're landing uh harder and and perhaps uh slightly differently now, but it's it's it's a continuation of where my head has been at for for many decades, I have to say. Would you describe the loss of your father as sort of a defining or the defining moment in your life? Like, has there been one moment that sort of changed or your orientation or approach to life or given you, you know, set you on a different path? Well, it was less so in this case. I mean, we were we were close, but it was a long-distance relationship. He had left when I was um two and a half. And uh Were you raised by a single mother or did she remarry? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, she she eventually got remarried when I was 15, but yeah. No, for all intents and purposes, I was I was raised by a single mom and she was I was raised by a single mother, too. And I didn't know that about you. Can you talk a little bit about I def I think almost everything I see almost everything the way I respond through the lens of being raised by a a a single mother. Can you talk a little bit about how that impact that's on had on you as an adult and your approach to partnership and being a dad? Yeah. Well, so again, this is a a a case that is going to be somewhat um atypical because my mom was just um uh both very very talented and and very lucky, right? So, she's she uh really did not have resources. My dad left. I think he on her account, he I think cut one child support check of $500, something like that. But, I mean, he really did not discharge his responsibilities as a dad very well. And he was a struggling actor, so he didn't he didn't have money either, but uh he had been he was painting houses at at that time to make money. Um but he abandoned me and my mom, you know, to go be an actor in in New York. he could he couldn't figure out how to do that in LA for some reason. Um so that that attests to some other lack of commitment to um being a parent. But um my mom uh discovered one day that she could write uh television shows and she discovered this very quickly. I mean she just I think she actually sold her first script. She was just watching television one day trying to figure out how she was going to make money. Again, we really had nothing. Um, and she uh I think she s I forget the it was maybe $2,500 or something. She but she sold sold the first thing she wrote and then just became a a colossus within the television industry. And she um eventually I mean her big hit was Golden Girls. She created Golden Girls. And so we went from being uh poor to being wealthy over the course of um it's probably it was probably a little more than a decade. I mean I I think I was oh my god Susan Harris. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I literally just thought I've kept seeing through this I keep see I thought I've seen the name Susan Harris on the in the credits of all these series in the 70s and 80s. My mom is awesome. Um, wow. But so, but it was a very weird time. And so, there's a a funny story that she likes to tell. Uh, which um maybe says more about me than than uh I would like, but she um I mean, she was working really hard. Again, she was a single mom. So, I I grew up with a lot with a long string of babysitters. And, you know, when I would come home from school, there would be a babysitter. My mom would be, you know, writing at the office. And at one point she came to me and she said, "Uh, we were living in in a little rented house in the San Frernando Valley." And uh um but I was going to a private school um that she had stretched to get me into. And uh so I was surrounded by kids who had much more money than we did. And she said to me, I don't remember this, but I I'm sure this is true because this is was indelibly etched upon her memory. She said, um, you know, um, if I I have an opportunity here, if I work much harder than I'm working now, um, we're gonna our situation is going to change. And, you know, you you'll be able to one day we'll be able to you'll be able to have a pool in the backyard like your friend Tom Brown who he had a you know, great house with a great pool. And um, but you're going to have much you have less of me. you know, you're going to spend more time with with the babysitters and um you know, so it's there's going to be a sacrifice. And apparently I thought for a few seconds and I turned to her and I said, "Get the pool, mom. I want the pool." I'm literally sitting here. I'm not exaggerating, Sam. I'm freaking out. You're Yeah. I feel like you've raised me through my 50s, but your mother, I just figured out kind of raised me. I was a child of television. Oh my. Soap is the first time I was ever introduced to a gay man, Billy Crystal. Well, not only you. Not only you, that's she's often credited with writing the first truly positive. I mean, I'm not sure it's totally aged well. I mean, it was probably, you know, more than you would want. But, um, is the tr first truly positive role for a gay character in television? I believe he wasn't he wasn't like a psycho killer or a pedophile. And then the first time I ever saw a a black man in a position of leadership was Benson, which is also your mother's show. And then when my mom was six, she and I used to watch Everyone Loves Raymond Frasier and The Golden Girls, right? Wow. That is that is just wild. So quite quite heroically she wrote I think this is a uh I mean this may not sound as impressive as it is because people don't know how television gets made but um she famously wrote she didn't have a writing staff for soap so she wrote I believe it's the first 75 episodes all by herself. I mean she was banging out one episode a week of television 22 weeks a year um all by herself. Uh, and I mean I very few people have done that in television. So, it was quite amazing. So, just as we wrap up here, you gave me a piece of advice about being a dad a couple years ago that I've really held on to, and I want you to I'm going to try and uh prompt you to remember it, but you said you figured out that you just in certain instances just needed to be dad. Can you speak more about that? Yeah, I mean, and part of this was was my realizing what I wanted in a school. I mean, I I I just wanted to outsource all of the the the role of being a teacher to the school so that and I must say this has been achieved imperfectly in the in my daughter's schools, but I just wanted to be able to say, "Oh, you know, yeah, that you know that, you know, Mrs. Johnson, she's she's a hard teacher, you know, and just commiserate with the with my daughters without ever having to to tiger mom anything, right? I just don't want to be that guy." And the truth is, I'm just not comfortable being that guy. I don't want I I don't like the subtext of apparently conditional love that gets communicated when you when you really push. Um, and so I just um I haven't and uh I mean I both my daughters are are good students and they're you know they're they're getting educated but you know there there's definitely a difference between you know tiger moming it and not and I'm I'm definitely not. And uh I realized I just want I just want to to have a I want there to be no doubt in my daughter's minds how much I love them and how much I I rejoice in who they are as people. Um and so whenever I'm in a mode that stands a chance of of confusing that you know it's it's I I I'm I'm alert to the to the the downside there. So I just um yeah and as a result I have very little stature in the home as a as a source of of uh knowledge or wisdom. Um uh I mean you know when push comes up that's that's probably not true but there's a fair amount of comedy had at my expense. I mean I'm I'm in a unlike you I'm in a household with uh with three girls uh or you know two girls and and a mother and um it's uh there's a there's very little testosterone in the home. What's up? Sam Harris is a neuroscientist, philosopher, bestselling author, and host of the Making Sense podcast. Sam, um, just to put some additional pressure on you, when people ask me who my role model is, I I cite you. So, if you if something happen, so I really hope for just selfish reasons, you keep killing it because if you go down, you're probably taking me with you. Okay? Oh, I need you I need you to remain to be thoughtful and courageous and fearless and and well read and and rigorous in your research, but always enjoy uh our time together. And I I really do look at you as someone who looks at the issues and then uh and I've tried to model this and then says what you believe is right regardless of what heckling from the cheap seats or shame you might endure. And it's something that's given me a lot of courage and discipline to say, okay, where does where does in an attempt to find the truth, where does it take you as opposed to constantly checking myself and thinking, well, what will the reaction be? So, thank you. Nice. Nice. Well, thank you. And uh high praise, but I I will I'll try to keep it together. [Music]