What was your quote unquote big break? Like what sort of took you what was a step change in your career? >> I feel like I had a bunch of little breaks that led to a bigger break and so I was pursuing both wanting to be an actor and a director and you know and also not really knowing what I was doing honestly in terms of having a sense of like like I wasn't somebody who came out of the box like I'm going to write and direct this movie and I know what it is. I was sort of finding it Ben, where does this podcast find you? >> Uh, I am at my house. >> Well, we need a little more detail than that. At my house. >> I'm in I'm in Westchester, New York, about 45 minutes north of uh of the city. You know, I guess in my old age, I like uh just being out in the country and hanging out. And you know when I do like going into the city. I grew up in the city but I never had like the suburban experience as a kid. And I think I always kind of wanted that and this is kind of yeah it's like you know there's something about just being somehow connected to nature that I really like. So people don't know this. Uh Ben and I started at UCLA the exact same year and Ben dropped out and you know things really haven't worked out for Ben but Ben can you this is a bridge to >> and things didn't really work out for you Scott either did they? >> Yeah it took me a little bit longer. Um anyways can you give us give us your sort of origin story? I think people know you by your work but they don't tell us like becoming Ben Stiller. Yeah. Well, I mean, I'm a Nepo baby, you know. I grew up around show business. I uh like my parents my parents were a comedy team still mirror. They uh and they acted separately together and um I grew up around that in in New York in the 70s and with my sister. We lived in an apartment on the Upper West Side and yeah, like it was show business in our life, you know, and I knew from a young age I wanted to be doing something having to do with making movies. I love making movies as a kid. I grew up around around show business. My parents weren't always making movies. They were performing, doing comedy, uh, nightclub act and commercials and sitcoms and, uh, but I knew movies were what I really wanted to do. Then I went to, you know, so I kind of grew up in this sort of like, you know, I guess you'd say privileged upper west side, you know, Manhattan of the 70s, which I think was a little bit more rougher around the edges. So like I I grew up on Riverside Drive in Manhattan, but if you went up to Amsterdam or Columbus, it was, you know, a tougher neighborhood. And that upbringing for me was sort of you know it was uh you got a lot of tastes of different uh of you know experiences of the world as opposed to I think you know maybe if I had grown up in LA where my parents hated LA and you know and been in show business where you'd sort of like living you know wherever Brentwood or Beverly Hills or something like that where it was so much more um you know segregated really and this experience was I think for me you kind of what I grew up with. I feel like I've seen New York change a lot over the years. Not that we're talking about that, but um I went out to LA to go be uh a director and an actor. Went to UCLA. Hated it. >> How did you end up at UCLA? >> I applied I was not a great student, Scott. I didn't have great grades and UCLA somehow somehow I was able to squeak in there. I thought LA movies that world I loved going to LA as a kid. I I kind of sort of like put it, you know, it was sort of this, you know, wonderful world of, you know, like I love the history of the movies and the idea of, you know, going out there and becoming a director. But then, so UCLA, USC, Boston University, and NYU were the four places I applied to and I got into those four places except for USC. >> But you got into UCLA cuz when we applied, I know a lot about I applied the same year. UCLA had an acceptance rate of 76% but at the time SC was where rich kids who didn't get into UCLA went. Shocking you got into UCLA and not into USC. >> Well, the film school was a tough film school to get into, I think. Um, and uh but my grades weren't great. And so I somehow got into UCLA and thought, "Okay, I'm going to do that." And it was such a I went to this little private school on the upper west side of Manhattan where there were like 60 kids in our whole class and there were open classrooms where it was like the whole floor was basically every uh learning area was divided just by you know these sort of like dividers where you could hear everything going on. So to go to all of a sudden to like a history course at UCLA where there were like 300 kids in the class and a teaching assistant and all that, it was like I I literally I didn't know how to do it. And I was never a great student. I didn't really socialize when I was out there. And I kind of, you know, it's interesting. My son's going uh to school now in New York and he's a freshman and he's just turned the corner the last couple weeks his freshman year of like embracing it and loving it. and I never really opened myself up to that experience. >> And what was sort of your first gig? So, you dropped out of UCLA. What did you do? >> Um, I came back, I remember very well, uh, coming back to my parents' apartment, sitting on my bed on a red eyee from LA and like it was like 6:00 in the morning and, you know, got back to New York and sitting on the bed and going like, "Now, what do I do? I'm out of school." That moment where you have to figure it out. And basically uh I got um I got a job working as a bus boy. I stayed at home with my parents and I started taking acting classes and uh I got an agent and auditioned for about 3 years and uh started to get call backs uh you know which is where they have to call you back for another audition. You get closer and closer to get the part. Uh but it took it took about two years to even get to that point. I just was not great at auditioning. I don't think I was great at being an actor in front of the camera. I wasn't that comfortable. And after a couple of years of doing it, I finally got to a place where I, you know, started to get better at at that process. And then I got a a job in this play uh off Broadway called The House of Blue Leaves by John Guer. And it was at Lincoln Center Theater. And that production uh was is a small part, but the character had a monologue at the beginning of the second act. And the production went to Broadway and ended up winning a bunch of Tony awards and I was in that and everybody came to see that. And from that a couple of directors came and I got a small part in Empire of the Sun that Steven Spielberg was directing. And then I got another small part in another movie. >> Empire of the Sun. I forgot about that. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> What was your I remember Christian Bale, but I don't remember Ben Stiller. Yeah, Ben Stiller is one of the uh prisoners of war in that prison camp with uh John Malkovich and I had maybe two lines. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> Um >> and what was what was your quote unquote big break? Like what sort of took you what was a step change in your career? >> I feel like I had a bunch of little breaks that led to a bigger break. And so I was pursuing both wanting to be an actor and a director. and you know and also not really knowing what I was doing honestly in terms of having a sense of like like I wasn't somebody who came out of the box like I'm going to write and direct this movie and I know what it is. I was sort of finding it and so uh I did these little parts in in movies and then I got a chance to be on Saturday Night Live in 1988 I think and I auditioned with a friend of mine. We made an audition tape. We were doing this little comedy act. So I was sort of like exploring making short films, you know, doing being in comedy, which I had sort of really kind of not wanted to do for a long time, but then started to find um a sense of humor, I guess, that I connected with in shows like SCTV and and Saturday Night Live, too. And um and so I auditioned and got a a job as um I made a short film actually for them that I I sold to them that was uh take off on The Color of Money with Tom Cruz. And then they hired me to be a writer and uh or an apprentice writer. And that was at the end of the 88 season. And I knew very quickly that I wasn't going to do well there cuz I I wasn't great at live performing. >> You weren't at all very long. No, no, I was there like 6 weeks and I um and then I had an opportunity to do a show at MTV. So MTD was just starting up in terms of like doing programming that wasn't videos and that little comedy act I did with my friend Jeff Khan. We >> You had a show, right? The Ben Stiller Show. the Ben Stiller show that was on it was on MTV for like 13 episodes and then somebody at the fledgling Fox network which was just starting. They didn't even have full programming then saw it and they and um there's a guy named Chris Alrech who ran HBO comedy and he produced basically this show uh that we worked on for a couple of years that we sold to Fox and then that got cancelled after about 12 episodes. Um, but that was probably like my first, you know, like I was doing a show and I was working with Bob Odenkirk and Janine Garopolo and um, who else? Uh, Andy Dick and um, David Cross and like all these people. We were just sort of starting out and that got cancelled. But then somebody saw that the some of those sketches and Danny Deito's a production company and they were making a movie called Reality Bites that they were developing with Helen Childress who was a writer, young writer and they put us together and we started to work on that movie together and Winona Ryder signed on to it and this was probably 90 1993 '94 and we made that movie. So that was my first movie that I ever directed. um thanks to Winona signing on to it. >> Ethan Hawk was in that, right? >> Exactly. Yeah. Ethan was in it and um that movie came out and you know did okay. But I was also kind of it's it's it's like kind of interesting. I was like doing that. It was a director and an actor cuz I was in that too. But nobody was really like banging down the door you know for me to do the next thing. And then Jud Appattow, who I met when we started to work on the Ben Stellar show on Fox a few years before, um, had been working with Jim Carrey and Jim signed on to do the Cable Guy and which originally was a Chris Farley vehicle and then Jim said he was going to do it and Jud was going to rewrite it and Jud suggested me to direct it to Jim and then we all had a meeting and and it, you know, got along And so this was a, you know, a point where Jim was just, you know, every movie he was doing was bigger and bigger. And so he had total freedom and it was this weird sort of dark relationship comedy that probably was not a great summer movie for Sony. But um, you know, we did it and it came out and was not super wellreceived. Was there ever a moment where you thought maybe this isn't the industry for me or what were sort what was kind of Can you think of one moment that was sort of your lowest moment in the industry? >> I mean I never thought it wasn't for me. I I never thought I had a I really never thought of doing anything else. And I think when you're younger and you have this sort of, you know, sense of what you want to do or this ambition or this, you know, kind of like blind sort of just, you know, uh, motivation to go towards something. I like I I wasn't self-aware back then to understand what was pushing me towards it. But I did definitely deal with, you know, cable guy. Cable guy was a, you know, there there was like an article in New York Times like the first disaster movie of the summer has come out and it's a comedy called the cable guy. That was the review. So that was tough because you know in show business when you make something >> be unfair. You've had a lot of negative reviews in movies. You I mean along came Paulie like I mean >> there's definitely um there's >> Well, I didn't get to those yet. This was just the >> director been really hard on the cable guy. >> Well, I took that one personally because I directed it and somehow the And yeah, you're right. Like I remember I think David Denby came out once in the New Yorker and wrote like a sevenpage article about why I shouldn't be in movies. >> The heartbreak kid star hutch which I enjoyed Sarah. I mean come on this is >> we're going to need a bigger boat. I mean this is this is not your press tour Ben. I'm not here to just blow you and talk about ask you your vision for severance. Wait, hold on. You are also in Mary Madagascar. Let's talk a little bit about that. Oh my gosh. And then Madagascar 2: Escape to Africa. >> That's right. Oh yeah. >> Night at the Museum, Battle of the Smithsonian. Yeah, I'm sure that wasn't for the money. Hold on. >> And Madagascar 3, too. >> Fresh horses. I don't know what the [ __ ] that is. Of Lucy Fell. >> Well, I could tell you I could tell you about all of these cuz each one has an amazing story to it. >> Oh my god. If you type in Ben Stiller's worst movies, there's three pages. [Laughter] It's like, oh my god, you're literally you're the advice. You are the living embodiment of the advice I give to young dudes. And I'm like, go up to everyone and ask them out and eventually something's going to work. Something's going to work. You have taken so many shots here. Like I I this I'm a I'm similarly one out of seven businesses work. So I've started nine. >> Oh, right. Right. Well, let's Yeah, it's a law of averages. >> Sorry. Sorry. >> No, it's okay. I mean, you know, it was an interesting time in terms of, you know, like all those movies making those movies cuz they were just sort of, you know, when the first movie that I ever was in that really did well was There's Something About Mary and and that was in 1998 and uh you know, I'd been doing it for a number of years and then after Mary I did get a lot of you know, opportunities and like yeah, like I think right after that it's like dup you didn't mention duplex too duplex envy >> I was I was holding that >> but you know that that's a weird it's a weird thing to go through for sure though when you're like kind of given these opportunities and coming off of one that finally worked and then a couple of them that really didn't you know that didn't work uh was you know it's kind of like you have to look at yourself and go what am I doing here >> what pieces of work surprised you to the downside and that is you thought they were going to I've I've never I've started nine businesses, which is not nearly as romantic as cool as making a movie, but I couldn't tell you when I started a a company what was going to be successful and what wasn't. And sometimes I was surprised at the upside and sometimes surprised of the downside. What pieces of work surprised you that they weren't as successful as you thought they were going to be, and what other pieces of work you thought? This is good, but it ended up being a huge commercial hit. >> Um, yeah. I I you know, I don't know. It's It's really hard to tell what's going to work and what's not going to work. Um like I wouldn't have known. There's something about Mary was interesting because it didn't open at number one. This was in in '98 um when movies were, you know, in for comedies in theaters. And that movie might have opened like number three or four or something like that, but over the course of the summer it worked its way to number one after like 9 weeks. And that hardly ever happens. And so that was a surprising thing for sure. And but then to see how that movie worked and then for me what I was surprised by how that changed all the opportunities for me because at that point I'd already you know I'd done reality bites in 19 in '9394. So, I'd been around for a while doing it and was actually really I was really happy in my career getting all these opportunities to do different things, but then being in a movie that was a box office success really changed then the sort of like I think the you know sort of lens of people looked at what I was doing and because then they were like well what's the next thing and then all of a sudden people were paying attention and yeah you know people were going to a lot of those movies some of them didn't work but then some of them really did work and um for the audiences and you know comedies critically have always been you know it's always a crapshoot in terms of whether critics will go for them or not but um you know I never ever had the feeling going into something like this is going to be the one you know what I mean except for maybe Fresh Horses because Fresh Horses was I was it was that was 1987 and I was just uh you know just starting out and it was Andrew McCarthy and Molly Ringwald and they were coming off of you know Breakfast Club and all these movies and it like this was the Brat Pack and I was like, "Oh man, I'm going to be in the Brat Pack. I'm going to be And the movie just >> this is it. This is my moment." >> The movie just tanked and but it was literally to this day my favorite experience ever making a movie. >> Really? >> Yeah. Cuz it was, you know, it was like six 20 something year old kids in a motel in Kentucky outside of Cincinnati for 3 months making a movie and having fun and hanging out and hooking up and doing everything. It was just like, you know, it was it was like the dream. It was it was so much fun. >> So, I know you're dying to know what my favorite works are of yours. First off, my my partner is literally obsessed with Severance. For me, your two uh two favorites probably the Royal Tannon Bombs. Oh gosh. Actually, you know what? I think Tropic Thunder. I think our our friend our friend wrote it Justin Thorough and then uh you directed and starred and Robert Downey Jr. was nominated. I thought that thing was so unusual. I can't even imagine pitching that movie >> and then the Tom Cruz um character. Anyways, but I still like the Royal Tannon Bombs the most. I think also I think it was one of Gene Hackman's kind of crowning performances. I which leads me to my question. What and don't say Robert Dairo. You've got a pretty deep body of work here. Who are some of the most talented actors that you have directed or worked with that may not be on the tip of our tongue? Like we know >> we know Gene Hackman's incredible, right? >> Who are some of the people you thought, "Wow, this person is not really appreciated for the depth of their talent." >> Well, I I mean I I would start with saying that, you know, in Tropic Thunder, you know, he is appreciated. just won an Oscar last year, but Downey for sure is a genius. And working with him on that movie, I felt like I was working with somebody who was um sort of just channeling something in terms of that character of that actor playing that role and the courage he had doing that. And also just the like he kind of just watching his process working with him. I love working with him. I love him as a person. He puts this energy into his work that he's aware of the fact that he needs to sometimes be do he has to allow it to flow and go and try things. And I think in movies, you you have to be feel free to try things because you're not going to know what works until you you find it, but sometimes it's going to be bad and you're going to put it out there and you have to feel that freedom. And I really felt like that's what he was doing with that character. um and a real humility about the work but also an incredible sense of confidence too in in taking the chances. So I think uh with him in that movie and I think everybody in that movie like Jack Black everyone was just kind of like doing that on a certain level where they're just kind of going for it and that's not easy I don't think you know especially in a you know cuz comedies can go bad you know and you but you have to take those chances I think uh you know working with Greta Gerwig and Greenberg with Noah Bombach um which was like her first sort of role that people sort of you know discovered her in uh and and watching, you know, the simplicity of what she was doing uh was was um very, you know, that that helps. When you're working with an actor who's so real in a scene, that changes everything for you because you're just, you know, I think so much of acting is reacting. And so, you know, that's why doing something like with Dairo is great because, you know, you have this amazing person giving you all this and you just have to kind of like take it in. We'll be right back after a quick break. Support for the show comes from LinkedIn. As a small business owner, you don't have the luxury of clocking out early. Your business is on your mind 24/7. So, when you're hiring, you need a partner that grinds just as hard as you do. That hiring partner is LinkedIn jobs. When you clock out, LinkedIn clocks in. It makes it easy to get qualified candidates that you can manage all in one place. LinkedIn can help you write job descriptions and then quickly get your job in front of the right people with deep candidate insights. Either post your job for free or pay to promote. And promoted jobs get three times more qualified applicants. You can let your network know you're hiring and add a hashtag hiring frame to your profile picture and get two times more qualified candidates. Based on LinkedIn data, 72% of SMBs using the platform say that LinkedIn helps them find highquality candidates. Find out why more than two and a half million small businesses use LinkedIn for hiring today. Find your next great hire on LinkedIn. Post your job for free at linkedin.com/prof. That's linkedin.com/prof to post your job for free. Terms and conditions apply. [Applause] [Music] Let's talk about >> failures. Failures. Literally everyone's gloming all over you on severance. >> I'd rather talk about failure. Let's talk about Madagascar 3. Come on, >> dude. It We only have an hour and a half here. >> All right. Because you do learn. I don't know this. You know, you're when you talk about business, right? You do learn. You really do learn more from the things that don't go well. As we all know, it's very true. >> I don't know if you've heard this, but my pivot host Cara Swisser has her own podcast called On. And you went on there before you went on my podcast. despite the fact that we're good good friends and I'm constantly talking you up and apolog and saying that no night at the museum the Smith smith the Smithsonian meets the focusers meets whatever. Uh anyways you said you had to make the show as soon as you read an early version in a writing sample from its creator Dan Ericson. What drew you to this? Cuz when I and this is why I would never be successful in your industry. When I've watched the show it reminds me of Game of Thrones. Every time I watch Game of Thrones, one of the things I appreciate most, I'm being serious now about severance is what I appreciate about Game of Thrones, and that is I can't even imagine pitching this to people and asking them for money to make this. It seems so if I if I had read if someone had pitched something about the seven realms and you know sword fighting with dragons but there's there's a there's a a red woman who's got mystical power and then someone said okay I have this dystopian this dystopian drama about relationships and our severing between our work and our personal lives. I would have as an studio exact thought this could be such a bomb. And the thing about severance, it reminds me a little bit and I think Apple's smart in terms of brand positioning between the talent, you know, Christopher Walk and John Tutur and the production values. I mean, there's just some c there's some shots where I think I would just want to leave this shot for 3 minutes because it's so beautiful. You can see the money dripping off the stream screen. quite frankly the talent the production values you it that must have that show must have cost a lot of money to produce and I would have thought there is a high probability of failure it just really impressed me that you were able to talk them into this what about it was so intoxicating for you that as you said on on you thought I got to do this >> I mean it was it all started with the script that Dan wrote this this um you know script that he wrote on spec to to send around to get people to meet with him. Um, and it was so clear to me the tone of it and what what it evolved into is probably its own thing that maybe wasn't quite on the page, but I think the combination of what Dan wrote and kind of what it sparked in me um was this, you know, basically, you know, that it reminded me of these workplace comedies that that I really loved like Office Space or The Office and yet it was in this weird world and That to me was the kind of hook of it. I give Apple credit for reading the script and saying, "Yeah, we like it. We want to do it." You know, they were starting up. It was like a weird confluence of events where Apple hadn't quite wasn't streaming yet. It was all sort of theoretical in a way cuz they were they were saying like, "Okay, you know, go ahead develop these scripts. We like it." At first, I think they thought I was going to like find an office, like an abandoned office, and just shoot it there. And then when we started to talk to them about no, this is actually going to be, you know, like a kind of a weird surreal world that we have to create, um, it it kind of evolved into something. But I think, you know, people say yes to things because for some reason they connect with it. But maybe what I was connecting with was maybe a little different than what Apple saw. But I think I I have to give them credit for saying, "Yeah, look, go ahead and do But it it's I I don't know how things evolve in this way where you're given the freedom. Maybe it's cuz of like stuff I had done before where I was given a little more leeway to experiment. Um I think when we put together the cast we had, they were excited about that, but nobody knows, you know, you don't know what's going to become. And >> they're rolling the dice. >> Yeah. And we never tested it. But we never did any, you know, um, focus groups or anything like that, too, which is also kind of weird cuz all those comedies back in the day were you always did test screenings and focus groups and all that. And this was one of the first things I did where I didn't have to do any of that. >> From an outsider standpoint, you look at the kind of the streaming wars and Netflix spending 18 billion and everybody having to massively increase their budgets. You would logically think, wow, there's never been a better time to be in the creative side of Hollywood. And yet you talk to people, you talk to creatives in Hollywood or in the business and they say it is awful here right now. Awful. So try and reconcile the two. You've been in the business a long time and you and you've been a producer and you've had to pull the money together. You see the business side of this. You've worked with I think most of the major streamers, most of the major movie companies. What observations would you have about how the dynamics of the industry and the biggest shifts? How do how do you perceive it as a creative having been in the business for pretty much 40 years now? >> Yeah, it it feels to me that it's upside down in that nobody really knows um how it's going to shake out with the streamers and movies and what people are watching and what's a movie now and and how do they make money from the streaming. I you know you know more about this than I do but there used to be this model that you make a movie and then you'd you know you'd release it in theaters you do money you do um business in the theaters you make money there and then you go to DVD and VHS right and that that was the the DVD streaming um thing became like basically you know dead after when streaming happened DVDs died and that's changed everything and I remember my agent telling me that like I don't know like 8 n years ago saying like it's all going to change. It's all changing and it was kind of hard to believe but it really has. I don't think anybody knows where it's going. So there's a lot of fear of you know what people are going to go and see in the movie theaters that those studios have. So they've just retreated to making you know things that are safe that they know you know that that that you know that's what sequels are. That's what uh you know known IP is. Um, and the it's so it's become sort of polarized in a way where there are these giant movies and then there are these movies like The Brutalist that are made for, you know, $9 million or whatever and win Academy Awards, but it's two different world and you have to struggle to make the, you know, the things that aren't going to be, you know, a slam dunk in in a pitch. So, it's it's really hard because then post strike there's been so much retraction, too. And the economy is really in a in a tough place, too. And that that affects that affects everything. So, it's um I would say it's it's really tough. It's really tough to go out there and pitch an idea if you don't have, you know, some star attached or some IP that it's based on or something that, you know, is going to basically, you know, guarantee the the streamer or the movie studio that they know they're going to get an audience. And as we all know in show business, nobody knows anything and you never know what's going to work. So people, you know, are not taking as many chances and it's it's really tough out there. >> Um, I don't know you well, but I've gotten to know you a little bit. And whenever we talk, uh, you inevitably bring up your parents and you bring up your kids. And I I want to talk a little bit about I mean we all like to think of ourselves as being close with our parents but you you're making a documentary where you're literally going through my understanding as old photos and and it feels like just sort of an ode or a nod to them in their life lives. Uh I believe your mom died in 15, your dad in 2020. talk a little bit about your parents, their approach to raising you, and you know, I don't want to say the impact they had on you, but I I I don't think I've ever been with you, and within an hour, you don't reference your parents. >> Interesting. Yeah. Well, I mean, I think they've been in my uh mind a lot and just with me a lot because I've been working on the documentary. So, the last 5 years I've been working on it and just just mixing it and finishing it now. Um, so I think I've been, you know, looking at at my relationship with them, I missed them. I think uh I think probably when they first uh passed away, I didn't know how to deal with it as much. And still I'm trying to figure out how to deal with it. I think anybody when you lose your parents is there's such an, you know, important relationship in your life. And I love my folks. And um it's it's interesting when you have parents who are supportive and love you and you don't have something to rebel against or to say, you know, my dad was this awful person and I had to get out of the house or whatever. You know, my they all they both had their issues. Um but they were very loving parents who were also actors and very much about the process of creativity for themselves which I am too and that's the thing I've been kind of thinking about a lot the last few years working on this movie is how my own you know uh process as a as an actor and filmmaker and creative person affects my relationships with my kids because you have to have a certain certain amount of selfishness as a creative person where you go, I need to take this time to work on this thing cuz that's going to make me happy. But then how do you balance that with being there for your family? And that's what I experienced with my parents too and I, you know, experienced it as a parent with my kids. And I think that's um you know what I grew up around was my parents working all the time in an apartment on the Upper West Side in Manhattan where they had a room where they had an office and they'd write commercials and write sketches and go off and do like a part in a sitcom or go do uh you know do their act in a nightclub or um you know do a little part in a movie or something like that. But they were constantly having to work because they weren't super rich or anything. they had to work for a living and um they never wanted to move to LA and be a part of the whole kind of Hollywood world. My mom had a real aversion to that. Uh my mom was a tough Irish Catholic, very assurbic, very funny. Um you know, still was, you know, say she loved me, but it was it was we it wasn't like warm and cozy. I think I share my mom's sense of humor more than my dad's. Um, and my dad was much more kind of uh of a soft touch, but he grew up he grew up in the depression with parents who were not that supportive of what he was doing. My mom lost her mom at a young age. Um, and my and she was an only child and I think she built up some walls, but um, you know, she was committed to my dad and this this work relationship that they had and they were trying to make a living and they were trying to just kind of, you know, do well in in show business. And as parents, they were, you know, there was a lot of laughing and a lot of fun, but it was also a lot of feeling the stress of, you know, what they had to do to to make ends meet really. Um, and yeah, so so I I feel like they were um I don't know. I I but I really Yeah, I really love them. I feel like I had issues with them when they were alive with my dad. I always had um sort of this push pull where I was like I wanted him to treat me like an adult and he kind of always coddled his kids and was overprotective and that led to tension. And I think also part of it was, you know, my mom uh drank uh and later got sober in her life and talked about it a lot. And I think my dad was always trying to like, you know, to to balance that. And that and I think that came out of the tension and stress of having to perform live, which she didn't love to do. My dad sort of drew her into comedy. um she was a dramatic actress who then was really good at comedy and he said, "Hey, we could do an act together. We can do a comedy act and that can make ends meet because they were starving living in an apartment on the Upper West Side in the ' 50s trying to, you know, make money and then that act you provided a living and an identity for them and she never really loved doing it as much." >> So I I didn't connect the dots. I didn't I've never heard the story or the the reference of your mom and drinking. Is is that one of the reasons why you don't drink? That's one of the first things I noticed about you is that you you don't drink. >> Yeah. I mean about I I I I think I stopped drinking about seven years ago. Um yeah, I mean there was always an awareness in our family. I mean like I said my mom was amazing in the last, you know, 10 years of her life. She got sober and uh quit smoking. She smoked her whole life and um and talked about it and was you know very committed to a program. And that in turn for me when I got into my 20s, you know, I started to realize what that dynamic was in our family and went my own way to to deal with that and and find a program to help deal with that for myself. Um, and yeah, an awareness of that has always been part of um, I I think, you know, for me, you know, looking at the lens of how our relationships with our parents when we're young affect our our current relationships. And I think for me, you know, Christine and I um, separated about 7 years ago, and we were separated for about three three or four years. And when we separated, that was when I stopped drinking because I felt like I wanted to just um you know, be present for whatever I whatever was going on, which was you know, feeling a lot of feelings and uh and it felt to me like I could go down a road that would not be dealing with the things I needed to deal with if I if I kept drinking. Do you think your sobriety led to ultimately some sort of recognition or realization in your life that resulted in your reconciliation? Well, I think yeah, I think, you know, you have to be present for a relationship, you know, and be available and be, you know, I'm not saying you have to be completely sober and not drink to be in a relationship, but like you have to just, you know, you have to be who you are and acknow take responsibility for, you know, for being there. And if someone isn't, then, you know, it's it's hard. It takes two to tango. So, um I think both, you know, Christine and I the the for us when we came back together was um I think we'd both done work on ourselves on on some level that was uh important so that we could be together and and the great thing is now I I recommend if it's right to come back with somebody because a lot of times it's not right to come back with somebody. I didn't know we were going to come back together. But now every day it's that that acknowledgement of like, okay, this is good. I appreciate this and it it could go away. So, I'm I'm going to just I'm going to be I'm going to be grateful for it and I'm going to be present. And then you figure out for yourself like what that means in terms of your own choices. We'll be right back. >> Support for the show comes from ShipStation. When you're starting an e-commerce business, a big part of your job is to build trust with your customers one package at a time. And one way to keep your customers happy, using ShipStation. Ship Station grows with your business, no matter how big or small. Not only is it good for you, it's good for your customers, too. Offering shipping discounts of up to 88% off DHL, UPS Express, and USPS, and up to 90% off FedEx rates. ShipStation also integrates with the services and selling channels you're already using, so you can manage your orders on one easy dashboard. You can automate shipping tasks and print shipping labels at the click of a button. And according to their data, more than 130,000 companies have grown their e-commerce businesses with ShipStation using the smart features and automations that were designed to boost efficiency. When shoppers choose to buy your products, turn them into loyal customers with cheaper, faster, and better shipping. Go to shipstation.com/propg to sign up for your free trial. There's no credit card or contract required, and you can cancel anytime. That's shipstation.com/propg. [Music] Support for PropG comes from Vanta. Starting a company is incredibly gratifying, but can also be one of the hardest things you'll ever do. And one of the most challenging parts of it is making sure that you're meeting all the security compliance standards you need to meet. Vanta makes the whole process easier. Vanta is a trust management platform that helps businesses automate security and compliance, enabling them to demonstrate strong security practices and scale. That means that a whole bunch of tasks that used to be expensive, time-conuming, and complex can now be automated and streamlined. Simply put, your company can't grow if it can't prove that it's meeting security standards, including SOCK 2, ISO 2701, and HIPPA. Vant can get you audit ready in weeks instead of months, saving you up to 85% of associated costs. And Vantis scales with your business, helping you continuously monitor compliance, unify risk management, and streamline security reviews all in one place. Starting a business is hard. Let Vant make the process a little bit easier. Go to vanta.com/propg to meet with a Vanta expert about your business needs. That's vanta.com/propg. [Music] We're back with more from Ben Stiller. We have a lot of young men who listen to the podcast and I'm curious what and a lot of these men are starting families. What advice and none of us have got this figured out figured it out but in terms of your own approach to being a dad, the role that your parents have had on you trying to straddle a line between that tension we're talking about around your own creative process and focusing on your own career such that you can be a provider while being present as a parent. um being separated for a few years um that always creates a different dynamic with your kids. What advice would you have for dads as they are thinking about or just starting their journey around fatherhood? >> Oh, wow. That's a good question. Oh, man. Um well, I would say that, you know, coming out the other end here with kids who are in their 20s now, practically, my son's 19, my daughter's 23. um it goes by quickly and there's a really um short amount of time that you're able to really, you know, be connected to your kids before they go out into the world. It's not it's not even when they're in their 20s, you know, it's by the time they're whatever 13, 14 years old, they're they're socializing and, you know, there's so many other influences that are coming in. And I I think when I was younger with my kids when they were that age, um I was I was a little bit daunted by by parenting. And I might say that my mother, you know, talking about my mom's influence, my mom was daunted by parenting, too. I think engaging with your kids, trying to set an example of what you do in terms of to be healthy for yourself, taking care of yourself. Um, but also reaching out to your children and being open to what they're giving back to you in a way that might not be what you had imagined. Um, in other words, like with my daughter when she was younger, you know, I used to it, we had a a tougher relationship, but it was more because I wasn't meeting her where she was. I wanted I like I you know, and I would want her to be interested in something that I was interested in and she was interested in what she was interested in. And so, um, having a willingness to to go to to do that, it's you have to kind of sacrifice a little bit of like what you think you're, you know, you you want that relationship to be and and and be there and and and open to it and not run away from it because I I think it's, you know, for some guys it's, you know, having babies and infants and toddlers, it's really intimidating. And I I think leaning into it and just knowing that it's a time that's going to go by very quickly, even if it's not the most comfortable for you because it's a world that you're not that confident in. Um, and being able to just like just be open to what your kids are giving you back is really important. It's not that easy, I don't think. >> Yeah, agreed. And what you said really resonates in that is I I imagine that my sons would just naturally be fascinated by CrossFit and World War II history because they would have such a fascination with all things dad that they'd want to be into what I'm into. And then I found out, no, they have no interest in these things. And being a dad means you have to fake interest in what they're interested. Like, oh yeah, let's go get Pokemon cards. I mean, >> totally. Totally. And and by the way, once you do that, you do get a lot back because all of a sudden you're engaged with your kids. How is your approach to your primary relationship different post reconciliation than it was pre-reconciliation? What advice would you have for young men trying to have a fruitful and rewarding relationship with their partner? >> Um, well, it's a lot of it is, I think, compromise and, you know, if you really care about this person, you have to figure out again like how to meet them where they're at. Also um if you have a career or something that you're really focused on or um you know you're revolves around you know the things you want to do you have to uh communicate and really talk about you know what's important to both of you and that's the thing I I guess like I just said it before but the gift of getting back together is that you realize that you know just cuz you're married or just because you say you have a commitment to each other it doesn't mean that it's going to work. You have to you have to um be present every day and um have a back and forth where you can say like, you know, like, hey, you know, I I want to do this thing for me. Can you be there for me? And then when they have something that they need you for, be willing to sacrifice it. I mean, I think sacrifice your own stuff. And I don't know, you know, like things like just I think a lot of human nature comes out of, you know, insecurity and jealousy in relationships. And, you know, if you can have that confidence of like saying, "Okay, you know, I'm I'm going to be okay with you going out and doing your thing. Um, if if you're in a a good relationship, that's going to, you know, that's going to help you so much." And it doesn't always work out cuz sometimes people are in different places and they're not doing what they should be doing. But if you're, you know, if you are a good couple and you're meant to be together, you have to give each other the freedom and the and have the trust. >> So I affectionately say we're the exact same age. Um I affectionately say we're kind of on the back nine kind of hanging out and waiting for the ass cancer. Like what what is literally >> I had the prostate cancer already. So >> Oh, that's right. Oh my god, that was so >> that was so uncom. That's right. You actually had prostate cancer. talk a little bit about that experience and how it how if and how it changed you. >> Well, it's scary. It's scary. >> That makes sense. >> I mean, >> that was so awful. I make a I make an irreverent reference to ass cancer and you raised your hand. Oh, well, I did have ass cancer. I got prostate cancer. >> I've spent a little bit of time with you and I, as much as I talk about my kids and my parents, you talk about ass cancer. >> You are obsessed with I think we have the beginnings of Madagascar 6 prostate cancer. I think it's coming. There it is. And didn't I tell you that if you get a colonoscopy, I think I told you this at the wedding. Uh you get a colonoscopy, you go to the right doctor, he explains to you why a colonoscopy is a good thing because it's if there's stuff in there, they can get it before it gets bad. So anyway, uh it was very scary because all of a sudden it's like everything is like boom, stop. You know what I mean? Everything we're talking about, it's like stop. You don't know if you're going to be alive in, you know, six months if you don't, you know, if this doesn't get dealt with. It's um like your worst fear. And I had a bad diagnosis in terms like the doctor wasn't great when he told me, you know, the PSA test, which I recommend every every guy who's like in 45 and up. >> That's kind of unreliable though. >> Yeah. But you have to watch it. And my doctor started testing me early. was supposed to be 50, but he started texting me around 45 and he saw it growing. And then you do a biopsy when they see something that's spiking up there. Um, which is scary. And they stick a needle in your in that your butt and it's not good. And then all of a sudden, you know, you're in a room with a guy saying like, "Yeah, yeah, it's cancer." So, uh, >> wait, let me check my notes again. Yeah, yeah, it's definitely cancer. >> He's like, "Yeah, so it's cancer." Um, and it it was I got a different doctor because I wanted a better >> hoping for a different diagnosis. >> Yeah. No, I I just wanted a guy who was going to actually like just, you know, I felt was like a little more Yeah. empathetic. But then I I went to um this amazing guy, Ted Schaeer, uh Dr. Edward Schaffer, who's now chief of oncology at Northwestern. He was at John Hopkins at the time, Johns Hopkins at the time. and he um you know met with me and he and he and he laid it out and and said you know you got to do this operation and that's the only choice and and did the operation and that was it you know >> that was 10 years ago. >> Yeah. >> So cancer free. So but >> is it one of those things where it was a speed bump and you're back to what you do or are there certain instances where you think you approach it or perceive it differently kind of post that scare? Um well the great thing about human nature is that you know when you get further away from an event this is painful you kind of you know you forget it a little bit. Um my first PSA test that came back you know zero after operation whatever when it was like yeah you're officially you know it cancer free you know that was I cannot tell you like what a great feeling that was. So whenever anybody I know or even somebody I see on Twitter or something says, "Hey, you know, just got my cancer free diagnosed," that's to me, I I know what that feeling is and I try to hold on to it. But if I'm being honest, as the years go by, you start to you do put it in the rearview mirror. Um but you walk around with a sense of like at any moment something could happen and you know this obviously just cuz you had cancer once doesn't mean you can't get cancer again. Um and or something else can happen to us obviously. So, it's an appreciation, I think, um, and something that you kind of carry with you. There's also, you know, it's traumatic. It's traumatic to go through anything like that. I was really lucky. I was really, really lucky. Um, I have friends who have dealt with, you know, cancer where the treatments have gone on for years, even successful treatments, but, you know, put put them through the ringer. And, you know, what toll that can take. And the tough thing is being able to go forward and do all the stuff you want to do in your life and just not think about it. But yet in it's like in three months I got to get that scan, you know, and see if I'm um and I've had so I mean so many people why why can't we Scott why can't we cure cancer? >> Like seriously like when all these like these like moonshots and money and like could you know one of these billionaires just put you know all the money in the world? >> Tearing it slowly. I think just seven years ago we passed a threshold where more people survive cancer now than die from it. So I don't think we ever cure it. I think we just get better at figuring out a way that you die from something else. >> Yeah. >> We can treat it really well. >> But it's it's also I you know so it's just like it takes such a toll on people even when they're being you know it's just off. I mean but look it's also >> and you had money. Think about what it's you know 40% of American households have some sort of medical or dental debt. It's like hi I've got bad news. Your wife has lung cancer. I've got worse news. It's going to bankrupt you. >> Yeah. I was incredibly lucky that I I didn't have to worry about that at all. And when I think about you know just what what people have to deal with uh you know on on a daily basis when when they do get these diagnosis and also like access to good doctors and you know people who care cuz like I was able to find a different doctor when I didn't like my doctor but most people can't do that. Um, you know, I have a friend who's involved with AI, and I'm sure you know much more about AI than I do, who says that like in the seven next seven or eight years, they'll be huge. >> You keep saying that, Ben. We keep waiting. The whole singularity, we're going to grow limbs and petri dishes and flying cars. I'm getting pretty cynical. >> What do you think? So, you think AI is >> Yeah, we're just going to figure out new applications that depress our daughters. I I've become very cynical about it. I I don't I hope there's a we've been on the edge of this great dawn of discovery for what feels like 40 years now where everyone's saying we're on the edge of so AI has obviously tremendous opportunity to speed the cycle time of testing and discovery but yeah so let's cross our fingers but I'm I'm as you can tell and you know me a little bit I'm a glass half empty kind of guy just in our remaining time here we only have a couple minutes you've been very generous with where I was headed with our age if you will you got a good relation relationship. My sense is you have a good relationship with your kids. You've obviously like had a pretty, you know, other than, you know, several thousand misfires. You've had you occasionally get lucky. Occasionally with the buckshot of your career, hit something. Um, no, you've had you really have from all dimensions. You've had a pretty story career. like what trying to trying it literally just if you can lowering your guard what do you want to accomplish and in 10 years what are you hoping to accomplish that you haven't yet or is it just more of the same >> that's a really good question um because I think about that a lot at this age I'm sure you do too it's like so clear that where what the runway is right and like that's And it it it it's um and time goes by so quickly. Um I feel like I want to make some more movies that ex that are closer like the this documentary is probably like the most personal thing I worked on and I realized oh for me I for a long time I started working before I even knew why I was doing it. I just had this instinct to do it. And now I have a sense of wanting to um I guess just explore film making in a way for me that will allow me to get closer to um expressing myself and and trying things and not being afraid of failure and going out and just doing it because I love doing it. And so in 10 years, I hope that I've continued to do that and then also found the uh time to to just do the things I love doing and be places I love being. But the creative process is really important to me. And honestly like I just hope you know 10 years 20 years I still have my faculties and I can enjoy the people I love and uh keep asking these questions of why we're here and what is it all about and um and connect with people uh in some way through through the creativity. Um, you know, I I love comedy, too, cuz I find it really challenging, but when it's done well, it can really, you know, it really can unlock a lot for people. Um, but I I don't know, like for me, I'm still trying to find my voice, I think, even at this late age, tell you the truth. Ben Stiller is an actor, director, and comedian responsible for many films including Meet the Parents, Zoolander, um, Meet the Folkers. [ __ ] focus. >> [ __ ] >> cuz it sounds like [ __ ] >> Um, I mean, just there's like Tropic Thunder, just it's it's staggering the the the book of work here. And most recently, the hit TV series, which is which is just kind of at least rocking the Galloway household. Jesus Christ, I'm sick of hearing about it. Uh, Severance, which is uh um airing now on Apple Television. He joins us from his home in Westchester. Ben, you know, occasionally you meet people and you have this image of what they'd be like. You are literally, and this doesn't happen that often, you're exactly as I'd imagine. You're this nice man who has managed to maintain some semblance of humility. I remember when we went to the US Open together, every person that kind of walked by and saw you and was like, "Oh my gosh, that's Ben Stiller." would stop and this happened a dozen times. Every time you made an effort to be thoughtful, act really receptive and warm and I can't imagine and you seem like you like people, but that's at some point that is an effort, but you make that effort. You're generous with your time and you never I never got the sense that you took for granted your celebrity. So anyways, I've really enjoyed obviously your body of work, but I've enjoyed um it's just nice to meet someone who kind of is exactly as you would imagine and hope they would be. Uh, congratulations on all your success, man. >> Thanks, man. I appreciate you. I I love what you do and I feel the same way about you. >> Thanks, brother. [Music]