There's this cartoon [music] of a woman in her 30s who doesn't have romantic love. It's like the greatest tragedy ever. You know, poor Lisa never found romantic love and now she's in her 40s and [music] she has cats. What a tragedy. Guess what? Lisa's just fine. All of the research shows the following. [music] Men need and benefit from relationships much more [music] than women. Widows are happier after their husband dies. True. This is true. Widowers are less happy. [applause] [music] All right. Hi everybody. Um, hi Scott. How are you? >> So, if you're looking for the ultimate sell signal, it's when Ben Stiller is interviewing me. [laughter] Literally sell everything. Cats living with dogs. the Earth is rotated off its axis. Like this, quite frankly, this [ __ ] just doesn't make sense. >> You asked me and I said, "Yes, >> I appreciate that. >> I'm a I'm a fan." So, I've written a little preamble that went longer than I thought. I promised we're going to talk a lot with Scott, but I just had to get this out and I thought this is going to be my introduction. Okay. Um, I've been a fan of Scots ever since I saw him going off on a rant on Bill Maher's Real Time about four or five years ago about Twitter and the internet and the future of technology. and I think crypto and I understood about 30% of the words he was saying but he said them so fast and so assertively and with such confidence that I thought I understood all of it and what I did understand was so crystal clear and his analogies were so clever that it made me think I could actually understand Bitcoin turns out I don't but I did realize that I love listening to you >> and um and then I started listening to his podcast with uh the great Cara Swisser >> um who I also became became obsessed with and their hilarious banter back and forth like an old married couple talking about super sophisticated ideas made me feel like I could be a part of a world I always was intimidated by tech and finance and at one point before I even met Scott I was so taken by his turn of phrase this is true that I literally started a file in my notes app uh of Scott Galloway quotes which I pulled up this is from like late in 2023 or early 2024 and these are just random quotes that I had that I wrote wrote down that I thought were writing down uh worth writing down. Uh here here are a few. Okay. Tesla is a drunken tourist with a Hublo watch. No idea what that means, but I love it. Uh you can't read the label from inside the bottle. Oh my god. Uh you just said mendacious algorithms. And I was like yes. I don't even know what I mean. I guess I know what that mean. You have you have to let your inner child develop an outer man. That's great. Uh, three things I hate most in life are shoelaces, keys, and passwords. You remember saying that? >> I do. >> Yeah. 8% of elected officials don't understand technology. We'll get into the statistics in a second. Um, vertical content, own the hardware, own the rails. That I had no idea what vertical content was when you said that now, but then I heard it, it made me want to get some. Um, I started to look him up on Twitter, on YouTube. I would watch his rants about technology and the internet and being a male person. And I started to hear him talk about mentoring young men and then the somewhat controversial sounding idea that young men in our society were at risk and needed older male father figures to guide them. So then I'm like, is that what he's all about? Is he like is that like his full-time job? He's like into boy scouts and things. And you know, I just wanted to know what who is Skype Gallery? What does he do actually besides memorize statistics? The man knows more statistics at the top of his head than any human being I've ever met. Quick stock. Just give me a statistic right now. >> Uh 45% of men 18 to 24 have never asked a woman out in person. >> Thank you. Okay. Then I learned that he was really wealthy and he had a plane and I really wanted to know like what does this guy do? And the more I watched him, the more fascinated I was with how he could just distill down the ideas of this very complicated culture that we're living in that goes a million miles an hour and make things seem clear and simple and also had a point of view about what it was to be a person, more specifically a man. This is when I realized even though I don't know what he actually does, I wanted to be Scott Galloway. >> Just me. >> He actually embodied all the traits that I wish I had had except being bald, though he pulls that off. But he's tall, articulate, smart, funny, has a plane, and is tall. And I uh never in a million years would want to go on a punt as a pundit on Bill Maher or MSNBC. Yet everything he says I agree with. And I'm like, "Yeah, that's the guy who I want to be." And then I realized that we actually do have a lot in common because we both went to UCLA, >> started the same day, >> same time, right? We're basically the same age. We were weaned on the same beautiful 70s TV. Brady Bunch, Partridge Family, I Dream of Genie, $6 million man. And that's actually all we really have in common. I realized um I I quit school and went back to New York. And so we never probably crossed paths cuz I was only there for like nine months. >> Well, there's a lesson there. Kids, drop out of school. >> Yeah. Um I could have probably met you if I rushed the Jewish fraternity, but instead I stayed in my apartment on Hillgard and learned to juggle um and not meet girls. Uh, now Scott, you've written a book that I think is part autobiographical, part handbook, part manifesto, and completely engrossing. I found it incredibly honest and revealing, and at the end very emotional. Um, I think you were willing to be vulnerable and real about your feelings of ego, anger, insecurity, and it just makes this book very personal and relatable. And even though it's kind of in ways a self-help book and you include a lot of charts and graphs on economics and employment, it's really written as a no holdsbred honest memoir, too. Um, and I think what you're writing about here is both personal exploration and also a sort of call to arms on how to help raise young men based on your own experience. And you know, I think in this day and time, it's always strange. It's a strange thing to talk about uh when you talk about mentoring young men because I think a lot of people sort of misinterpret it and I was watching you on the Today show the other day and you said you know even they said it at first like oh this is like seemed controversial at first what you were talking about but you know really what why is it so controversial now I'm going to start asking you a question why is it so controversial to talk about mentoring young men >> well >> if you think it if if you agree with that idea >> so first off to to set the groundwork. The statistics are pretty stark, right? Um if you go into a morg and there's five people died by suicide, four are men. We have a homeless and an opiate problem, but what we really have is a male homeless and a male opiate problem. The third time three times as likely to be addicted, three times likely to be homeless, 12 times uh to be incarcerated. And if uh so the the the problem is pretty present and to the right's credit the right or the far right really recognized the problem and it started talking about um needing to lift young men up. The problem is the remedy from the far right and the voices that filled that void. Their suggestion was that we return to the 50s where women and non-whites had less opportunity. That's not the answer. and they began conflating masculinity with coarseness and cruelty. At the same time, the left hasn't been that helpful because their advice when talking about the struggles of young men is to say, well, if you're only more in touch with your feelings, you don't have problems, you are the problem. And their basically their advice is act more like a woman. And I don't think that's helpful either. And so there's an opportunity. the the gag reflex is understandable because let's be honest, we've had a 30,000-year head start. And since 1945 to 2000, the US registered a third of all economic prosperity globally, which is 5% of the population. So essentially, Americans registered six times the prosperity of the rest of the world. And then you take that 5% and all of that prosperity was largely crammed into the third of the population that was white, male, and heterosexual. So when they hear a white dude talking about, "Oh, poor men," they immediately have a gag reflex like, "Oh [ __ ] it's that Andrew Tate weirdness again trying to set me back that feels that there's an inverse correlation between women's ascent and men's descent." And the reality is the reason we won World War II and men got to come home heroes is because we embraced women in the factories. Hitler wanted women to stay at home. And we said, "Fuck that. Women can make P-51s. Let's get them in the workplace." Had women not entered the workplace, had we not had the advancement of non-whites and women through the 60s, 70s, and 80s, America's economy, just on a very, you know, economic level would have crashed. So the left I think does not recognize that empathy is not a zero- sum game. Civil rights didn't hurt uh white people heterero or gay marriage didn't hurt heteronormative marriage. But when you started talking about men, there was a gag reflex from um the left that wait, you're one of those guys. That your discussion of men is thinly veiled misogyny. That the answers are always going to be setting back the wonderful rights that we've acquired for non-whites and for women. And so I get it that there's a bit of a gag reflex. And effectively what's happening is young men are being held responsible for our unearned privilege. We got more opportunities than we deserved. A lot of our success is not our fault. When I applied to UCLA, the admissions rate was 74% when we applied. Now it's 9%. Uh homes are now six times as expensive as they were when we were buying homes. Incomes have gone up twice as much. Right. The cost of education has gone up sevenfold. And a young man is now um one only one in three men are in a relationship under the age of 30. Two in three women. You think, well, that's mathematically impossible. It's because women are dating older because they want more economically and emotionally viable men. And a lot of the jobs that were onramps for men into a middle class lifestyle have disappeared. And then you talk about the ultimate enemy which is big tech trying to convince men and attaching a profit motive trying to convince young people they can have a reasonable life faximile of a life on a screen. And so the result is a young generation of men who don't have nearly the opportunities that we had but are being held liable and accountable for the opportunities we had. And the result is you just would never have a special interest group killing themselves at four times the rate of the control group and not weigh in with programs. And so when you go to the Democratic National Convention, as I did, you see this parade of people talking about the very real challenges facing special interest groups, but there's not one mention of the special interest group that's fallen further faster than any group in America, and that's young men. So I think the gag reflex is understandable. I get it. But if you really start looking at the data, you recognize that we can walk and chew gum at the same time. We can still address the problems facing women. A woman once she has kids goes to 73 cents on the dollar versus men. That's a problem. Social media is is unfortunately attacking the self-esteem of young girls. And the rates of self harm and cutting have doubled since social went on mobile. That's a problem. We can address it. But we can also recognize that young men are really struggling and that our country isn't going to continue to flourish and women aren't going to continue to ascend if men are flailing. And what I would offer up and this is the conversation has become so much more productive than when I started talking about it 5 years ago and immediately got this wild push back. Oh, you're Andrew Tate with an MBA. You know, the push back the the dialogue has gotten so much more productive. Governor Moore State of the State address said he's going to focus administration uh this year on the struggles of young men and boys. And the cohort that has advanced the conversation and made it much more productive is simple. It's mothers. And what's happened is mothers I get a lot my my fans are young men but my supporters are women mothers. And they say something like this. I have three kids, two daughters, one son. One daughter is in PR in Chicago, one is at grad school in Penn, and my son is in the basement playing video games and vaping. Mothers see what's going on. There is uh a lack of economic opportunity, a lack of romantic opportunities, and the deepest pocketed firms in the world have connected profit and revenues to sequestering young people from relationships and anything else in their life and then taking them online and enraging them. And unfortunately, men with a much less mature prefrontal cortex are much more susceptible to this. So I think the dialogue, the good news is the dialogue has become much more productive. This would have been out of the gates 5 years ago seen as two old white dudes trying to keep women down. >> Speak for yourself. >> But this was Hey, I college graduate. Um, >> yeah. I'm sorry things haven't worked out for you. By the way, he just said he was just saying he was just saying to me off the off offline, I'm like, "What are you working on?" He's like, "Meet the parents for." I'm like, "It's good to see you're finally making some money from that shit." Anyways, but look, why was it so controversial? Why was it so controversial? No, the art world, the our world needs that. The world needs that, Ben. >> Um, >> sorry. The gag reflex is understandable is what I'm trying to say. >> So what do you actually do? >> I'm totally serious though. >> What do I do? >> Yeah, cuz like I know you're a professor, but you're also like super rich and you are super successful. >> I know cuz I I got a ride on your plane once. >> That was exciting. >> Just cuz you're famous. I'm a total star. >> Okay. Yeah. But seriously though, like what is this combination that you've put together being a professor who also is like very good at business? Like what what is it that you actually spend your days doing besides memorizing statistics? Because how do you know all these statistics? >> I did a lot of I did >> it's insane how many statistics you know? >> I did a lot of drugs in college. Stay in school. >> Um >> but like what's your like what do I do? Like when you're not doing a book tour, how do I make money? What do I do? What do you want to know? >> What do you how do you spend your time? just just so >> how much time do you spend thinking about this stuff versus teaching versus running your company? >> So kind of three buckets. I spend about a third of my time writing. I write a newsletter. I enjoy writing books. Uh about a third of my time on media, podcast and television. And about a third of my time um quite frankly on investments where I go on boards. And because I've lived in Europe the last three years, I'm on leave from NYU so I'm not teaching. But typically uh one of those things a third of the time would be teaching. But I consider myself at the end of the day uh a teacher. And my superpower or my core competence is communicating. I make a lot of money and get more relevance than I deserve and can have an impact because I'm a good storyteller. As you can tell, I'm not a modest person. But my superpower my superpower is that people such as you think I work harder than I do. I don't work I used to work very hard. I don't work nearly that hard anymore. And the secret to scaling and making money and having more relevance and impact than you deserve is my superpower. And I'm great at this. I'm great at attracting and retaining really talented people. Prop media. People think it's amazing that you can draw these graphs and all this, right? I got 25 people at PropG Media and Katherine Dylan is here, Drew Burroughs is here. I um [applause] new employees, Billy Bennett. I don't know if anyone anyone else from Prop G here my assistant is here my chief of staff my point is and this is I always try to reverse stuff to a learning greatness is in the agency of others and I'm not saying that to be politically correct if you want to have outsized opportunities economically or from a relevant standpoint you do this I mean I can't seance must have taken at least three or four people right three four five people >> uh no I [snorts] made it out all by myself. >> 400. I mean, my point is um I'm a >> No, you're saying delegating in a certain way. Uh or what is is it is it choosing This is an interesting thing to me like choosing the people you who work with you and making those choices that someone that is so good at what they do that you can then relax and go, I know this person is going to handle this for me. Is that >> it's everything. The only thing the the reason I get to live the life I lead is because I was always able to find really good people, give them a bunch of ownership. I've So, the way I've made money is I've started and sold companies, but when I sell the company, I typically never own more than 30 or 40% of it because I'd rather have 30 or 40% of something that gets sold for a lot of money. And the way the only way to get people to act like owners is to make them owners. And so I've always given away more than half my company to the employees. And as soon as I find someone good, I hold on to them. I've been working I've known Mary Jeene for 25 years. I've been working with Katherine Dylan for 15 years. Drew, our tech guy, who I think is here tonight, I've been working with 12 years. So it it sounds it sounds pass, but greatness is in the agency of others. So what do I do? I teach. I communicate. Uh, and I'm very fortunate to have people, great people around me who who scale my efforts and create a lot of econ economic opportunity and relevance that I I wouldn't have otherwise. We'll be right back after a quick break. [music] Support for the show comes from betterment. With investing, it's easy to get distracted by the new shiny thing, but there are some basic principles that stand the test of time, including be clear about your goals, make saving and investing a habit, create a plan, and stick to it. Betterman is a saving and investment platform that makes it easy to invest for the long term. Their goals-based investing framework lets you group accounts based on their purpose, like kids college education or house down payment. You can even upload a photo as a visual reminder of what you're saving for. Automated investing features make investing consistently easy, and Betterman's customized glide path strategies with automated rebalancing means that you can stick to a plan without having to constantly monitor your investments. added sophisticated tax smart tools and you get a powerful investing system that requires very little maintenance, which means you can go live your life without having to worry if your portfolios are doing what they should. So, be invested in yourself, be invested in your business, be invested with Betterment. Get started at betterment.com. Investing involves risk, performance, not guaranteed. I'm Scott Galloway, and the people behind successful brands know it comes down to two things, the promise and the performance. And [music] great brand managers know that most of the time it's all about the performance. And that's where Adobe Express comes in. Let's imagine a fast growing fizzy drink brand that's scaling across markets. And like many companies experiencing rapid [music] growth, brand chaos is setting in. Logos are being cropped, colors are being changed, and off-brand content is beginning to dilute brand equity and reduce marketing ROI. Adobe Express brings order to this chaos. Your marketing team can build and share easy to apply brand kits with your business's fonts, colors, and logos. Pre-approved templates with lockable elements make following design guidelines a breeze for [music] everyone. Anyone with any level of design experience can remix or reuse templates to create onbrand content with a consistent look and feel. And with custom home, all the approved templates made by creative teams are right at everyone's fingertips, front and center for quick and easy reuse. The clock model reveals when connection with your audience counts most. Adobe Express ensures you show up polished and onbrand every time. Support for Prop comes from Chime. It's no secret that managing your money can be stressful. Overdraft fees, mispayments, and the constant worry about saving more can add on undue pressure when life already feels full. Chime says it can help ease that stress by giving you simple tools to take control of your finances one step at a time. With Chime, your money moves faster for you. You can open a checking account with no monthly or maintenance fees, set up direct deposit, and even get paid up to two days early. Plus, Chime offers fee free overdraft coverage of up to $200. Chime says it's already spotted members more than $30 billion. And with more than 47,000 feef free ATMs, that's more than the top three national banks combined. They say you'll have your money wherever you go. It's all [music] designed to help you stress less, save more, and make your money work harder for you. You can work on your financial goals through Chime today. You can open an account in 2 minutes at chime.com/prop. That's chime.com/propg. Chime feels like progress. >> Chime is a financial technology company, not a bank. Banking services and debit card provided by the bank or bank NA or Stride Banka members FDIC. Spotting eligibility requirements and overdraft limits apply. Timing depends on submission of payment file. Please apply at out of network ATMs, bank ranking and number of ATMs according to US News and World Report 2023. Chime checking account required. >> Just to get back to what you were talking about before I interrupted you about it, I was it's interesting to me when you say these role models for young men and you talk about mothers. >> Yeah. Um, can you talk a little bit because I I in the book you talk about your childhood a lot and um and your parents and I can you talk a little bit about how they influenced you growing up being you know having divorced parents what role your mom and and your dad but really how your mom affected you. >> So I've cried twice this week on national TV. first on the view and about two hours ago on Oh no, it's not cool. I was just on the Daily Show and I'm not exaggerating. Jordan Kper literally moved his hands across and held my hands and looked around like, "Oh [ __ ] I don't know how to deal with this." Um, look, raised by a single immigrant mother who lived and died as secretary, lied to my life. And one of the basic takeaway is the following and I try and do this and um, BA is here. We do this I think really well. If you say to a kid, regardless of of my mom worked very hard, we didn't have a lot of money, it was just us, me and her against the world. But if somebody tells you every day in small and big ways, implicit and explicit, that they just think you're wonderful, you know, I was by the time I was 16, I was 6 feet with bad acne and 120 lbs. I wasn't like I didn't have huge social capital, let's just put it that way. But when someone's telling you every day that you're wonderful, you can't help but start to believe it. And I think that confidence has always been resonant inside of me, you know, and she um I I was just really blessed when I reverse engineer all of my, you know, what's happened to me. The base of it is someone who just was just, you know, every day convinced me I was a good person or that I was worthwhile. My dad wasn't around. My dad left. My dad um was a handsome man with a Scottish accent, which meant in 70s California, you could not only think with your dick, you could use it. And [laughter] um married and divorced four times as far as we know. And uh so he left when I was eight and he wasn't, you know, he tried. I forgive him later in life because I think the primary box you have to check as a as a dad is to be better to your son than your father was to you. And my dad was a much better father than his son uh dad was to him. His dad was an alcoholic and physically abusive to him. And he was pulled out of school at the age of 13. lied and joined the Royal Navy where he was jumping into freezing water in a wet suit at the age of 18 to come home after two years sending all his money home because he wanted to come to America where his mother informed him she'd spent all his money on whiskey and cigarettes and was angry at him when he was upset because she said, "What was I supposed to do? I'm bored." So, my dad didn't have a lot of great role models in his life. But, you know, he tried uh checked a box. I inherited the gift of storytelling and he he he made the smartest decision that had the most impact on my life and that is he and my mother decided to immigrate to America. A lot of my success is not my fault. So their decision to get on a steamship at the ages of [clears throat] 20 and 21 and come to America I'm just very grateful. And in divorce you have a tendency I think to sanctify one person and demonize the other. When I did that, I didn't speak to my father for years at a time because I would get very angry when I would think about he could have made my mom and my life much easier and he didn't. And you, you know, you hold on to that resentment, right? I don't know. I a lot of us have complicated relationships with our parents. But the learning here or the big unlock for me and what I would tell anybody it's just made me much happier is that growing up my approach to relationships was transactional. Am I getting as much from this friendship as uh you are um uh with a a girlfriend. Oh, my par your parents are in town and I hung out with your dad. That means you got to hang out with my with my parents. And if you don't or you know everything was a transaction. I had a scorecard around every relationship and including my father. All right, I'm not going to be a better son than you were a father to me. Full stop. I'm just not. And then what the biggest unlock or one of the biggest unlocks from my life that started my father is I said, "Okay, what kind of son do I want to be? What kind of friend do I want to be? What kind of partner do I want to be? What kind of investor do I want to be? What kind of business partner do I want to be?" and then hold yourself to that standard and just put away the [ __ ] scorecard because you always inflate your own contributions and diminish theirs and you end up unhappy. You always end up and I decided I wanted to be a loving generous son regardless. >> Can I ask what point did you in your life did you make that shift? >> Few weeks ago. Um under the influence of mushroom chocolates. I'm reconsidering it. Um, no. About quite frankly, not until I was about 40 or 45. And as soon as I decided I want to be a generous, loving son and put the [ __ ] away, our relationship just got much better. And and I realized I, you know, forgave him for his flaws, recognizing, you know, he did try and a lot of his DNA, a lot of his risks have paid paid huge dividends for me. So, there's no reason I can't be grateful for those things. I want to flip it back to you. You had a different relationship. Your parents married long-term. I get the sense from the things I've read about you. It sounded like you grew up in what I would call a very stable, supportive, loving household, but that's the exterior image. I mean, you know, upper westside New York 70s parents who were a comedy team, relatively stable, you know, like it was a different time. It was a You know, I I just literally I just made a documentary about my family and that whole experience. And there's so much that I can identify with what you're saying in terms of getting to a point in your life for me where it took me to get to a point in my life where I could appreciate that point of view of looking what kind of relationship do I want to have with my dad as opposed to holding on. >> Yeah. Um because I had a great dad and for in a way though the daunting of course I always had stuff with him as any son does but the daunting thing was for me was that he kind of was cast a big shadow in terms of the way the people reacted to him because they he was a very generous guy loving guy. So like for me it was hard to I I I was in sort of in conflict because I was like well yeah but he's my dad and you don't really know like and he was great as a dad too. It wasn't some some secret of like what he was really like, but it's still challenging. But to get to that point for me was when I had kids and I wanted to kind of get into this with you a little bit. That point where you kind of matured to a point where you could say, "Okay, I want to have this kind of relationship while your dad is still alive." >> Yeah. Um, you know, you wrote in the book about there's a little section where you talk about your parents' friends who you grew up with who, um, you know, were very kind of these larger than life characters sort of when you were a kid and then they got older and you talk about how >> when um, uh, your mom's friend was older and she you basically she you needed someone to help take care of her and she left you things and you just you wrote there's a little mention there where you say like I couldn't quite be I couldn't be there for her >> the way that maybe you felt you should have at the time. Um, and I really it really resonated with me because I I felt like and then you said, you know, as you matured, you were able to figure that out. But looking back, you said like I wish I had shown up more for that. And I it reminded me of a time when parents, my parents' friends, two of their very close friends, one of them was very sick when I was in my 30s. >> Yeah. And I couldn't deal with that of this this guy who I remembered as a kid was like such like I loved him so much and I and he was on his deathbed >> and I had I couldn't go to visit him. >> Yeah. >> And I felt awful about it cuz and at the time I just couldn't deal with it. >> Yeah. Um, and I feel like you really talk so eloquently in the book about, you write so eloquently in the book about how you've gotten to this place with your kids of really wanting to be something and have a relationship with them that maybe you couldn't have when you were younger. And I think that to me is like one of the themes in the book, the idea of, you know, of growing and changing as a person and and when you get to these points in your life where you're able to appreciate those things. So the backstory is uh my mom's best friends and my godfather were uh were Carson and Charlie Evans. And remember the first time you remember people for the if there if you registered in motion for a first time with them and I remember thinking for the first time these people were cool and rich. I had never met cool rich people before. They lived in the Hollywood Hills and they'd have parties with live bands and cool music and everyone seemed beautiful and Carson was gorgeous. She was literally and Charlie had a business. They were kind of the toast of the town and he took an interest in me and I remember going to his business and it didn't look like I was going to go to college. So when I was a senior, I started spending time at his printing company in the valley and he was trying to get me used to the thought that I might go to work there and um they were the toast of the town. Anyways, u Charlie um lost his business, lost everything. Carson said, "I'm leaving you." Went into the garage, killed himself, and my fast forward 20 or 30 years later. Um my mom is sick and I'm living with my mom. I'm doing a lot of virtue signaling right now, but it's true. I was living with my mom and Carson calls and by this time Carson was a raging alcoholic addicted to painkillers and she said, "I'm coming. I'm I'm coming." I'm like, "No, no, we're fine. We're fine." And then up rolls from San Diego to Las Vegas, this Canary yellow Corvette with a little Scottish Terrier and 12 bottles of Johnny Walker Red. And she says, "I'm staying here. I'm here to take care of my best friend." And she used to make hot pockets for us. And unfortunately, the image that will always stay in my mind is me walking in, getting there on a Sunday night from New York and Carson naked on her back with these enormous enhanced breasts and a maintenance worker and it said Carlos. And they were fooling around on my mom's couch. And the weird thing is it was such a strange time in my life. I'm like, "This fits. This fits." And wow. >> And just going back, you know, and then things resolve. mom passes away and Carson um uh about 3 years later I couldn't get her meds or and I guess without opiates you're basically she died without cuz her her system it was passed away and I get a call saying uh you're the only beneficiary of her will you're the sole beneficiary and quite frankly I could have found time I should have found time I called her every once in a while but I didn't find time to go see her. And I'm not proud of that. It's just a lack of character, right? Uh to not find time to go, you know, spend time with a woman who took care of your mom at the end. And there were just certain things I couldn't do for my mom that Carson did do as [ __ ] up and drunk as she was all day. She was a huge, huge asset to me at a critical moment. So, I got all excited. I was sad, but then I got excited about potentially a windfall. and and she had a safe and I'm like, "Oh my god, there's got to be something good in there." And it was like some weird stuff, some photos, and this gold belt. And I used to remember her wearing it of these big $5 Indian head gold coins. And I think the belt was probably worth like, I don't know, 20 or $30,000. And I thought, I'll just hold on to this in case [ __ ] really gets real. I need to shove something up my ass and move to New Zealand or something. And so I put in a dresser. It is never a good idea for me to try and hide anything. And then a few years later, a friend of mine got divorced and I was moving and I said, "You can have all my furniture. I'm moving to a smaller apartment." And about five years later, I did I just like really needed some money. I'm like, "Oh, I'll sell the belt." And gold had spiked to like, you know, a million dollars an ounce or something. So I go on this frenzy looking for that goddamn belt. I can't find it. And then fast forward another 24 months later, my friend Adam goes, "By the way, you know, we have this great costume jewelry uh we found in one of the the dressers you sent me." And I'm like, "That thing's probably worth like 80 grand by now." And he's like, "Oh, my 13-year-old's been wearing it to his eighth grade cuz he thinks it looks makes him look like a rapper." And I'm like, "Does he have it at school right now? Cuz if he does, could you go get it?" Like, he can't lose this thing. But these gold coins are a reminder that at the end of the day, like you can be the toast of the town, you know, these people had everything. One guy sticks a rifle in his chest, you know, Charlie, and the other dies addicted to opiates. And I don't have any like hallmark channel lessons here other than relationships are everything. And just to recognize a lot of your success and a lot of your failure is not your fault and you don't know what's going to happen. Anyways, you probably that was probably more than you wanted. Thank you and good night everybody. It's been great talking to you, Scott. Um, well, I mean, let's talk about You want to talk about uh marriage and relationship? >> No. >> No. Okay. >> Yeah, sure. Well, I thought was like really I I love how much you talk about marriage in in the book because um you obviously are invested in your marriage and we both have long-term marriages and um you give interesting I think great advice about what makes a marriage work. Um you had a bunch of statistics about how married people uh live longer and are happier or they're happier. So >> I'm I'm just I know >> you're really selling this and his wife is here. Um >> no no I'm happier now. I'm like I'm in but this actually is about the arc of happiness that you have in the book is interesting. He has the graph about the arc of happiness which is like in across your lifetime and it kind of goes like a big smile >> smile. Yeah. >> And I found it to be very true. So this is I'll try and bring this back to the book about men and that is so there's this cartoon of a woman in her 30s who doesn't have romantic love. It's like the greatest tragedy ever. You know, poor Lisa never found romantic love and now she's in her 40s and she has cats. What a tragedy. Guess what? Lisa's just fine. All of the research shows the following. Men need and benefit from relationships much more than women. Widows are happier after their husband dies. True. This is true. Widowers are less happy. Women do live longer in relationships. They live 2 to four years longer. Men live four to seven years longer. If a man hasn't cohabitated with a woman or been married by the time he's 30, there's a one in three chance he'll be a substance abuser. When women don't have a romantic relationship, they oftentimes pour a lot of that energy back into their friend network and their professional lives. When when men don't have a relationship, they pour a lot of that energy back into online content, nationalis, nationalism, misogyny, anti-immigration, they start blaming other people for their problems. The bottom line is men need, especially young men, need guardrails. And there is nothing like the guard rails of a relationship and especially marriage. And when I I I'll flip this back to you, but when I was younger, when I was, you know, in my 20s, 30s, and even into my 40s, everything was about more. I wanted more money. No matter how much money, I want more money. Relevance. I want more relevance. No matter how fabulous my experiences are, the people I was hanging out, could I hang out with more interesting people? Well, I'm in St. Barts for New Year's. the same. What about F1 for new? I just more. I want [ __ ] more. Just never quite sad. And the only time I have ever felt sad is when I'm with my boys and my partner Bayata and we look at each other and we know we've done something right and it's a hassle and it's the end of the night and the kids instinctively throw their legs over ours and we're all on the couch or I know they're safe. I know they're protected. I know they're loved. I know they love me immensely. It's the only time I've ever had a moment where I thought, "Okay, I get it. I could go now. I don't want to go now, but I get it. This is it. This is enough." Only time in my life where I've ever felt sad. And what I would say to I didn't want to get married. I didn't want to have kids. I I just didn't. I thought, you know, being single and alone in New York is a empty and meaningless experience, but as far as empty and meaningless experiences go was pretty damn good. And >> [laughter] >> And then I found someone who wanted to have kids and said, "I'm not interested in a long-term relationship with kids." So I'm like, "Fine. Uh, we'll have kids." And now, hands down, and all the research shows this, the happiest people are generally part of a family. And I think the part of masculinity is the greatest reward I feel is making them feel like they're noticed and they're loved, being a provider for them, making them hopefully that they feel protected. But it is the most unexpected means of finding purpose and meaning in my life. And the the most wonderful thing, it's not even making money that's great. It's making it with people. It's making it with a team. When I met my my wife, I had no money. She had no money. We've built a great life together. We had no kids. We have these two boys who get less awful every day. But doing that with someone else when you don't when my mom passed away, one of the hardest things about that was every time something good happened to me, I would call my mom. I got my first bonus from Morgan Stanley. Call my mom. And you know, your mom can just wax on and she just loves hearing about great things. I just I met a woman in a coffee line and I got her number. Well, good for you. That's so wonderful. You're so handsome. It's no surprise, you know. And for a good 5 10 years, every time something good happened to me, it was as if it didn't happen because without calling my mom, it would it like it wasn't cemented. It was like it just didn't happen. And so now with a wife and kids, it's like good things happen again. Like we are building something together and hands down the most rewarding thing of my life. And if I could have any sort of public policy in some we need to put more money into the pockets of young people such that they can afford to mate and build loving secure families. 60% [applause] 60% of 30year-olds used to have at least one child 40 years ago. Now it's 27%. And it's not some cool anti-kid thing. Oh, they're worried about the climate. they can't afford to. And also, when you have a lot of young men who aren't economically viable, we don't like to have an honest conversation about mating. Men mate socioeconomically, horizontally and down, women horizontally and up. Beyonce could work at McDonald's and marry Jay-Z. The opposite is not true. 75% the truth folks, 75% of women say economic viability is key to a mate. Only 25% of men. So when men are not doing well economically, we have an absence of mating. We have an absence of what is the opportunity to do the most rewarding thing in the world, and that is build a family where you get to that point of building something with someone else. And without those opportunities, you know, it's it's tough on women, but it is absolutely disastrous for men because without the guard post or the guidepost of a relationship, a man really comes off the tracks. So the question is, how do we figure out a way to lift up all young people, which I think will disproportionately benefit men right now because they're kind of falling off of the tracks and that is they don't have the money, the confidence, or the skills to find a partner. And when I think about the most, it just makes me very upset and rattled to think that the most rewarding thing in my life is effectively off limits. Marriage is the new luxury item. four-fifths of people in the top quintile of income earning households get married. Only one in five men in the lowest quintile ever have an opportunity to mate. And unfortunately, that's more the average or more typical in history. Only 80% of women have reproduced in our species on the planet. Only 40% of men because the natural state of kind of barbarism and a society just left where it doesn't redistribute uh money back to the middle class. The natural order is Porsche polygamy where the few men who are anointed money or so talented or lucky they get a lot of money, they have multiple mates and the majority of the lower 90 of men don't have any. And a society collapses on itself because those men get angry and the most dangerous person in the world is a lonely broke young man. If you look at the most unstable violent societies in the world, they have a disproportionate number of young men without a lack who have a lack of economic and a lack of romantic opportunities. And I think right now the reason why we have elected an insurrectionist president is because young men are failing and young people pivoted hardest from blue to red, 20 to 24. And the second group that pivoted hardest was 45 to 64 year old women. And my thesis is that's their mothers. Because if your son isn't doing well, you don't give a [ __ ] about territorial sovereignty in Ukraine or transgender rights. You just know your kid, your son isn't doing well. So, I think we have all sorts of reasons to make a huge investment in younger people, not just men, all younger people, right? The $40 billion a year tax credit for children gets stripped out of the infrastructure bill. The $120 billion uh cost of living adjustment for social security flies right through Congress. Old people have figured out a way to vote themselves more money. Our elected representatives are a cross between the Golden Girls and the land of the dead. And they keep transferring more money from young people to old people. A person under the age of 40 is 24% less wealthy than they were than a person that age 40 years ago. People our age are 72% wealthier than they were 40 years ago. What does that mean? It means young people are struggling. They're more anxious. They're more obese. And it especially hard on young men because we don't like to talk about this but when a young man has fewer opportunities to be provi be a provider he is harshly judged in society. Women are disproportionately and unfairly evaluated on their aesthetics. Men are unfairly and disproportionately evaluated on their economic viability. And we are producing way too many economically unviable men. It is bad for household formation. It robs young men of the greatest opportunity for happiness to build something with someone else. And it makes a nation unstable and violent. [applause] We'll be right back. Support for the show comes from LinkedIn. [music] We say this all the time on our show, but it bears repeating. Running a small business isn't just a full-time job. It's about a dozen full-time jobs that you rarely, if ever, [music] get to clock out of. At least until you get to the point where you can start hiring the dream team. And if you've made it that far, you already know there's no time to mess around. That's where LinkedIn Jobs comes in. [music] LinkedIn makes it easy to post your job for free, share with your network, and get qualified candidates that you can manage all in one place. And [music] LinkedIn's new AI feature can even help you write job descriptions and then quickly get it in front of the right people with deep candidate insights. And if you decide you want to go the extra mile to find the perfect candidate, LinkedIn says that promoted jobs get three times the number of qualified applicants. [music] It's all these little things that let you find help fast without compromising on quality, which add up to you finally having extra time in the day for, I don't know, relaxing. Or knowing my listeners, you'll probably use that extra time to expand [music] your empire even further. Post your job for free at linkedin.com/prov. [music] That's linkedin.com/prop to post your job for free. Terms and conditions apply. Support for Prop comes from Pipe Drive. The sales process isn't exactly an easy process. Even the most experienced entrepreneurs can have trouble keeping up with everything. And it's even harder when you have a bunch of scattered information spread across tools and systems with no clear view of what's happening. Pipe Drive brings your entire sales processes into one simple centralized space, giving you a crystal clear, complete view of sales processes and customer information so you can stay in control and close more deals faster. Piperive knows every team works a little differently, which is why they let you fully tailor your CRM to match your unique sales process and strategy all within one platform. In Piper's visual sales pipeline, you can see every deal, track its stage, and know exactly what needs to [music] happen next. It's a powerful, simple CRM built by salespeople for salespeople. Join the over 100,000 companies already using Piperive. Right now, when you visit piperive.com/propg, you'll get a 30-day free trial. No credit card or payment needed. Just head to piperive.com/profg to get started. That's piperive.com/profg and you can be up and running in minutes. Support for the show comes from Crucible Moments, a podcast from Sequoia Capital. We've all had pivotal decision points in our lives that whether we know it or not at the time changed everything. This [music] is especially true in business. Like, did you know that autonomous drone delivery company Zipline originally produced a robotic toy? Or that Bolt went from an Estonian transportation company to one of the largest ride share and food delivery platforms [music] in the world? That's what Crucible Moments is all about. Deep diving into the make orb breakak moments that set the course for some of the most important tech companies of our time [music] with interviews from some of the key players that made these companies a success. Hosted by Sequoia Capital's managing partner Rol Boa, Crucible Moments is back for a new season with stories of companies as they navigated the most consequential crossroads in their journeys. Hear conversations with the leaders at Zipline Drive, PaloAlto Networks, CLA, Supercell, and more. Subscribe to season 3 of Crucible Moments and catch up on seasons 1 and two at cruciblemoments.com on [music] YouTube or wherever you get your podcast. Listen to Crucible Moments today. I should. >> Yeah. I like being married. >> What? >> I like being married. >> How long have you been married? >> Uh 20 25 years. >> 25 years. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Well done. [applause] >> Um how how important is it do you think talking about masculinity in a marriage? This just a something I was thinking about like how important is it for men in of marriage do you think to maintain like that that thing of feeling like a masculine man cuz that's you know do you know what I mean? Uh-huh. >> Well, I mean, just in terms of like you talk about masculinity in young men, but like as guys get to our age, you know, I feel like guys our age start to try to grasp on to holding on to something as you start to get older. >> Yeah. Look, I don't I don't think of it. The honest answer is I don't know. I haven't parsed the role masculinity plays in a in a >> What do you think about in your in in your own marriage? >> What? Okay. So, I've given a I've given a couple best man toasts. And I'll give you the exact toast I give for a successful marriage. This is my my feeling. Uh, one, put away the scorecard. We talked about this. Just decide the kind of husband you want to be and always try and be in the plus column. By the way, I think that is the lipmus test when you become a man. I think there are a lot of males that grow really old and never become men. And I think the ultimate lipmus test is the following. It's the term surplus value. You create more. Every one of us is absorbing 20, 30, $60,000 a year in tax, other people's tax revenue. If you call 911, someone shows up. If you need to go to the hospital, they'll take care of you. There are brave men and women handling very expensive equipment to try and defend our shores from people who would like to kill us. All right, so we have a debt. So, do you create more economic value in jobs than you absorb? Do you notice more people's lives than notice yours? At some point, do more people complain to you than you complain? It's okay. You want it the moment a man and some men ever get there to a point where they are adding more economic value, adding more love, adding more concern, absorbing more complaints, making more people feel good about themselves and maybe made you feel good. That's the whole [ __ ] shooting match is surplus value. So anyways, keep put the scorecard away. My first suggestion in these tests. The second is the following. always express always express physical desire, sex and affection. It's what says I choose you. I think women want to be wanted. I I sorry I that's my experience. And I think having a really robust always wanting to express your desire and express affection. I think that says to your partner, our relationship is singular. I think it's hugely important. And finally, and maybe most importantly, never ever let a woman be cold or hungry. [laughter] Cool. Um, [applause] I was afraid I wasn't going to have enough questions, but man, um, it's great to listen to you talk. There's I I got one more thing I want to talk about before there questions from the audience and I I really want to read a bunch of them because I >> Well, first off, what do you think makes a successful marriage? >> Oh [ __ ] Um I think um you have to want it and you have to appreciate what you have. And for me it it that's where I got to. It took me a little bit to get there. And uh really I think that's the thing in marriages that go on a long time is that you get used to each other and you take for granted what you have. So to me it's like always every day not taking it for granted. I I had that ability because I wasn't together the whole time we had the separation came back together. And >> what was the moment where you realized this is worth investing and re-uping? What was it >> when I didn't have it? I mean, when I had time to really sit with, you know, being on my own and think about it and >> and was it loneliness or not sharing your life with someone or not being in a family unit? >> It was all of those things. And having the space, I guess I don't know. I don't know. Like I was just like I realized, oh, I miss I miss this. >> And and yeah, and then I felt very fortunate that I actually was able to, you know, come back and that we were able to come back. But like the great thing is is like every single day that's never a question, you know, now at this point. Um, uh, this is but I'm here to interview you, Scott. Um, no, I um I wanted to in what you were saying before we go to the questions, I wanted to talk about pick up on what you're saying about the surplus value thing. And in in the in the book, you talk about how much you love your family, which I found really moving. And I've got a friend who's an author, George Saunders, great author, who's written in his short stories and and novels about the idea of loving bigger and outside of your own family unit. Um this idea of like, you know, of having that willingness to to sacrifice outside of those in your immediate blood relations. Yeah. Um, and you wrote I just wanted to read this uh before because I thought it was really moving and it is what you write about your um relationship and how you changed in in terms of appreciating that when you say you say I lost my self-absorption for a moment and thought about the millions maybe billions of people in a constant state of despair over the well-being of their children and this is talking about the family unit which we all feel that connection with their children but um facing everyday things they can't control that they that aren't their fault or they're doing that threaten their kids' well-being except it feels like it's your fault fault. Our only real job here is to ensure our kids survive and prosper. Any threat to this survival and hopeful prosperity is the ultimate failure. Uh it cuts to tissue and emotions you didn't know existed. So like you know that idea of what you feel for your own kids. How important do you think this idea of empathy is for those outside your immediate circle is in terms of how how we go forward in the world? I think about it in terms of having done you know work with refugees and seeing the you know I think the horrible attitude that our government has towards uh you know people who are vulnerable um and how important it is to have that empathy and is that something you think about? Yeah, I I couch it in the I talk about the three legs of the stool of masculinity. Be a provider. I think it's important that men at least attempt from a very early age to be economically viable. But the whole shooting match, the whole reason why you make money, establish strength, establish skills is you move to the second leg of the stool and that is protection. And what really worries me about our current leadership. So just naturally, young men are going to look to the most powerful person in the world and the richest person in the world for leadership as an example around masculinity. They're just going to model those people whether we want them to or not because president's the most powerful person in the world and the richest man in the world has won this game called capitalism. And what I just find so disappointing and so incredibly damaging and I think it's going to haunt our young men for decades and it'll take a ton of time to reprogram them is that these individuals are not taking their prosperity and moving to protection. If you cut aid, if you have if you're the richest man in the world and you're cutting aid to HIV positive mothers, that should be a reputational extinction event. That is just [applause] that the the whole point I think of masculinity is take care of yourself. Be real get really [ __ ] strong. A man under the age of 30 has incredible bone structure, more double twitch muscle, and this amazing substance called testosterone. I jokingly say any man under the age of 30 should be able to walk into any room and know if [ __ ] got real, they could kill and eat everybody or outrun them. And when you get physically and emotionally and mentally strong, right, you're going to feel better about yourself. You're going to be less prone to mental illness. You're going to be more attractive to potential mates. Who breaks up fights at bars? Really strong, confident people. Who starts fights at bars? People who don't feel very good about themselves. So, you protect yourself. You get strong. You protect your family. Then you start protecting your community. And the ultimate expression of masculinity, full stop, is you plant trees the shade of which you'll never sit under, right? What you're talking about your work with refugees, that's the whole that's the whole shooting match. And I don't say that to be virtuous. I say that it took me forever to get there. I was so focused on myself and taking care of myself and making money. And I'm not naturally I'm not naturally a kind or philanthropic person. And I'm embarrassed to say that, but it's true. These were things I had to learn and I had to appreciate. But what you realize is that if you can get to that outer ring of protecting people you'll never meet. Jesus Christ, that makes you feel like a man. And I'm not suggesting that that's not reward that women can't get. I think they actually have those nurturing instincts come more easily. But that's the whole point of leaning into your manhood. Be really [ __ ] strong. Be really talented. Make a [ __ ] ton of money. Get influence. Be smart. Be generous. Be kind. and then start if you can protecting others. That's the that's the basis of masculinity. If you think about the most masculine jobs, military, firemen, cop, at the end of the day, they protect. And I think that a lot of men, the men we're supposed to look up to, have totally miss the boat on protection. Like, why on earth would you make that much money if you didn't use it to protect people? It just it makes absolutely no goddamn sense to me. And that these are the worst role models for young men. They've conflate masculinity with coarseness and cruelty. That's that couldn't be more any anti-masculine. Being sued by two women concurrently for sole custody of that child because you've never seen that child. Elon Musk, that that couldn't be any more anti-masculine. punching down and our nation quite frankly is not very nurturing or masculine right now. 20% of people Americans are under the age of 18 but 40% of kids under the age of 18 are on food stamps. That means we have decided we are no longer in the business of protecting the most vulnerable. Our nation is losing its roots of protection and masculinity. I think I think I think women heal. I I think the most successful families and the most successful alliance in history and I'm going to work on hopefully flipping Congress and I want to get involved in politics in terms of helping someone retake the White House, but restoring [applause] that that is so pandering to this audience. But but I think the theme for the next 10 years in America has to be restoration of alliances. Alliances with our great trading partners, alliances between moderate Republicans and moderate Democrats that see themselves as Americans before their parties first. But also, I think we need to restore the greatest alliance in history, and that's the alliance between men and women. And what each gender has done a great job of is trying to convince themselves that it's the other gender's fault. I know. I know. When a young man is like unsavable, he starts blaming immigrants for his economic problems and he starts blaming women for his romantic problems. It's like I there's nothing I can do, boss. You've lost the script. And at the same time, just to be an equal opportunity critic criticizer here, a lot of young women have absolutely no empathy for young men. There's this movement on TikTok where women are saying they won't date. They've stopped dating because they're worried about being unalived. I don't know if any of you have seen these things have gone viral. Meaning they're worried they'll be murdered by this violent pathological group called Young Men. And here's the data. If a man goes on a date, he's 16 times more likely to go home and hurt himself than hurt his date. You're four times more likely to get hurt on a car ride over or choked during dinner than to be hurt by a man. Men are dangerous. Young men are not doing well and they're dangerous, but they're dangerous towards themselves. And just saying to young men, you don't have problems. who are the problem. We need empathy from women. We need women women have to lead this dialogue especially mothers and young men need to recognize. We need to celebrate the progress of our sisters and mothers. But for God's sakes, I have 7 and a half billion points of evidence that the greatest alliance in history is the alliance between men and women. The happiest households in the world bring a combination of masculine and feminine energy. And by the way, two women can bring masculine and feminine energy. I'm drawn, my close friends are generally more feminine. I like nurturing, caring men. I'm more drawn towards feminine attributes and men. None of these qualities are sequestered to people born as a certain gender. But young men have an easier time leaning into more masculine attributes, and we need to recast them as something wonderful. There's no such thing as toxic masculinity. There's cruelty, there's abuse, there's violence. Those couldn't be more non-masculine. But for God's sakes, let's lift each other up. This [ __ ] men and women together, bringing a mix of that incredible femininity and masculinity. That's the whole [ __ ] shooting match. That's the most rewarding thing ever. So, let's decide we're allies again instead of instead of finding reasons why it's the other gender's fault. Let's let's let's get out there. [applause] All right, we're getting close to the end, so I'm going to just ask a couple of these questions. Thank Oh, >> thank God. >> Oh, this was your idea. >> Thank god >> this is not about Stiller Soda. >> It's so It's so good to see you finally making some money. >> Okay, >> Stiller Soda. Ben doesn't drink. That's why we'll never be close. >> Thank you. Okay, >> but so he started >> chocolate mushroom. >> He started a a soda line. What's mine? I ask for your input on branding. >> You just wanted access to my social. It's like when candidates call me for advice. They just want my money. Cheers, brother. >> Cheers, man. Cheers. Good to see you. >> Good to see you. >> Thank you. [applause] >> Okay, here's a couple of questions. And going off of what you just talked about, which was pretty profound. How big a role how big of a role does repressed emotion play in this young men, all men issue? And is therapy helpful? I don't feel really qualified to comment on that. I I'll I'll just say from a personal standpoint that I'm not an adolescent psychiatrist. I just don't have any domain expertise here. And people are constantly fond of reminding me on Twitter that I I have no domain expertise in this area. Um what I will say is the following. This is just personal. From the age of 29 to 44, I didn't cry. Do you cry a lot? >> I do more now. >> Now? Yeah. >> Yeah. Um, meet the parents four. [laughter] >> We really needed that. Um, [snorts] anyways, from the age of 29 to 44, >> you're not getting invited to the premiere. >> From age, from the age of 29 to 44, didn't cry once. Didn't cry when my mother died. Didn't when my company went chapter 11, you know, just didn't didn't cry when I got divorced. just didn't just lost the I forgot how literally forgot how and then I started again and what the advice I would give to any man is that life goes especially as you get older life starts falling off a cliff years become quarters quarters become months months become and I'm an atheist I think at some point I'll look into my kids's eyes and know our relationship is coming to an end but it kind of liberates me to be a little bit more fearless with my emotions and what I started doing and it's been just The gift is when something moves me, I weep up and I cry. And unfortunately, it's gone a little bit overboard. I cried on the View and The Daily Show. But my suggestion or advice to men is don't fall into some sort of [ __ ] up sense of masculinity that there's a good reason why men don't want to cry or exhibit weakness. Because for about 99% of our time on this planet, if you exhibited weakness to another man, there's a decent chance he might sense that weakness, kill you, have sex with your wife, and then eat your children. So, men have been taught instinctively not to in any way exhibit weakness. Vulnerability is not something that's hardwired into our DNA. But if you see something that inspires you, you need, in my opinion, my advice would be to stop and really bask in it and try and understand why this thing inspires you. This piece of art, this piece of design, something you've read, read it again and really try and understand and inform your emotions. Why does this move you? Try and let yourself lean into crime. When you find something funny, do your best to laugh out loud because you need to slow life down. You need to inform yourself. And I find that I'm much less prone to real anxiety and real anger, both of which I suffer from. If I'm more in touch and registering emotions, I just think it's healthy. It >> informs your life. It slows life down. In terms of at what point that type of repression impacts a kid psychologically, the honest answer is I don't. >> Yeah. >> I don't feel like I have the domain expertise. Why are you crying more, Ben? >> Uh because I I don't know. Oh, I mean I think I mean also like you know when you're an actor too like you're sensitive sometimes you know and it's like kind of like that stuff is actually stuff that you are try to somehow be in touch with but like in life for me I think I just value everything that I have. uh I'm more self-aware and maybe I don't know maybe it's because life has h you know things I've gone through in life losing my parents appreciating that um them as people watching my kids grow up seeing how they become people cats in the cradle is true you know on a certain level it's life happening to you so I I I feel like it's a good thing too and I think what you're talking about also is not just it it you're talking about like stopping and experiencing the moment of what's happening in terms of what something that moves you like actually cuz we're just all going a million miles an hour with social media and TV and life and everything. If you're saying like stop and actually experience the moment and think about what you're feeling and feel it and and just be be in the moment and that I think is a very important thing too. >> We're we're sentient beings. the the fear or the danger is you rip through life, maybe make some money, maybe had a couple kids, but did you ever really feel anything? Like at the end of your life, like did your life really happen? >> Right? >> So my sense is if you're committed to squeezing as much juice out of this lime called life as possible, if you aren't regularly practicing feeling [ __ ] your life will go like that. And at the end of your life, you're going to regret not having slowed it down and being what it is to be human. Sentient means feeling. I'm not good at it. I'm getting better at it. But I think it's great advice for all men. Live your life. Feel [ __ ] Lean into it. >> Do you feel like when you watch something or listen to music or watch a movie or something, it like unlocks something for you, or do you find it just happening in real life more? >> Oh, I get a lot of it from art. I can't watch Modern Family without tearing up. >> Okay. [laughter] Um, >> I do think Meet the Parents 4 might really bring it out. >> [applause] >> All right, I'm going to do one last question. >> How did I agree to see this [ __ ] [laughter] >> Um, what is your perspective on the role of a man that is a father of a girl? How do you have that? Uh, how do you have that some impact without a male child to show the way? I'm Can you here? couldn't quite >> a doctor wrote this >> maybe or the person >> I think and my wife's going to kill me when I say this we have two boys and she wanted a third and I said no. Uh I was so freaked out about I mean the reality is you have your world of work, you have your world of friends, you have your world of kids, something comes off the tracks with one of your kids and your whole world you know that's it. the whole world just shrinks to that kid. >> And like most people, we knew people who had had issues with their kids. I mean, not huge issues, whatever. You know, pick your acronym. >> And my attitude was, we're good. We know our two kids are pretty, you know, either going to be good or great. >> Let's cash out of the table. We're pushing our luck, our odds. And also, to be blunt, I wasn't making a lot of money. And the most stressed I've ever felt when Bayata gave birth to our first child, it was right during the teeth of the Great Financial Recession. And I was basically broke. I'd basically lost everything. I've been rich three times, which means I've lost it all twice. And the Great Financial Recession came along and just wiped me out. And the first thing I felt when Alec had the poor judgment to come marching out of Bayata at the wrong time, I did. It was not bright lights and Bata will confirm this. It's not bright lights and angel singing. I was the first thing I felt was kind of like shame and anxiety cuz the the paternal instinct kicked in and I'm like I have had I've made so much [ __ ] money and I've just blown it. I was so narcissistic and egotistical thinking I should double down on my own companies. I was that idiot that borrowed stock against his company to buy more stock and [snorts] you know never diversified in it to win it. I'd read these articles about, you know, Bill Gates putting all of his money into his company and Mark Zuckerberg turning down a billion dollar, you know, just and I bought so into that kind of macho. And then we had a kid at exactly the wrong time for me. And I I was so quite frank, I was just worried I wasn't going to have the economic security to handle three kids, especially in New York. So yeah, I I don't I don't want to pretend the where I was headed with this. One of my biggest regrets is not having a third and not having a girl because and now it's for selfish reasons because girls take care of their dads, but I don't know if I have any specific advice on parenting girls versus boys. You have a daughter, so >> Yeah. No, [laughter] >> wrong person. Yeah. Yeah. Um, uh, all right. Listen, this has been great. I I I seriously, you are incredible. Scott Galloway is incredible. What a resource. What an amazingly could talk for another two hours to you. [applause] Um, and uh, yeah, thanks everybody for for coming and buy the book. It's really, really good. And I hope you do what you said and you'll get more involved in this next uh, election cycle. All right. Thank you. >> Thank you, Ben. [applause] [music] >> [applause]