# Mental model launch SaaS get customers

Published: 2025-08-17

In this video, I want to show you a complete mental model that you can use to launch a SAS business idea from finding a good market to go in. Validate an idea within this market and finally find your first customers. So very quickly we are going to look at find how to find a growing market and what does that mean? uh research the market and extract the pain point. Uh identify the market opportunities, the market gaps and more importantly uh the three ways to think of uh actually creating value on top of what's already existing in this uh growing market or market in demand because uh most market are saturated. it doesn't mean that there isn't any opportunities anymore and that's what we are going to see uh with the different approach that we can see here. Uh then once you have an actual idea how do you transform it and create a sort of uh marketing MVP uh that we also can call a smoke test. So you can actually attract users before even you build or you can also build and then attract users. That's your choice. Uh and finally we are looking at the best ways to attract customers that you can partially automate that are the easiest to start with. Not the only ones but the easiest to start with. So, if that sounds like a a good use of your time, then let's go into it right away. And you might wonder why there is a bakery picture right here. And I'm going to get to that in a in a minute. Okay. So, first of all, what do do I mean by finding a growing market? And let me show you uh a screenshot of exploding topics. So just for you to know what I'm talking about. Exploding topic is this website um that you can access. There is a lot of things for free. It just surfaces um topics that people are um talking about a little bit like Google trend but Google trend you have to go into it and type something while exploring topics is already showing stuff that is working. This is uh by no mean the the only way to find growing markets. It's just a very uh simple way to understand what's uh actually a growing market. You first of all you have the volume here and then you have the curve. What you want to see ideally is a big volume and you want a a kind of a stable curve that is growing or stable over a very long period of time. So for example, uh this this is something that um you always want to be careful. This is something you want to be careful. Uh here it's exploding topic is the website. So it's not showing you the good markets that are just stable. It's only showing you the ones that are growing. Uh a stable market is a good market, but that's just for the illustration. So let's let's say um I took this example. So wearable breast pumps. So if you want to build a SAS for example, you you might wonder why is that interesting for you? Well then it's interesting because if that is growing then what I want to do is to go into Google trend and check uh for example the breastfeeding um market. So what is the demand around the topic of the of breastfeeding? And I can see that this is an actual um healthy market. So it was growing for a few years. Now it's kind of stable. There is a lot of um demand in this market. You imagine that it's a it's a market that has a complete set of problems that uh that can be very tough for some people. So there is something to do in it. So what you want to do is to start iterating from this market and you you start uh understanding okay what's already existing and what can I build in it. But we are going to talk about that in a moment. I want to touch upon bakeries. Why bakeries? Hey, just a quick break. This video is actually sponsored by myself. And I want to show you something that might just make your next customer say, "Finally, that's exactly what I've been looking for." If you're a founder, especially a technical one, you've probably hit this wall. You can build the product, but when it comes to explaining it so people actually want to buy it, you end up guessing. and guessing cost you money, cost you time, and cost you momentum. That's why I have built the voice mining framework. It's not another fluffy branding or guru marketing course. It's a plug-and-play system that uses AI to mine your market's exact language, their paints, desires, and buying triggers straight from where they already talk online. Then it turns that research into readytouse landing pages, ads, email, short form script, long form script, whatever marketing assets that you need. Bottom line, you stop writing what you think will work and start using words you know will convert. You can grab it today, run it this afternoon and have a real datab messaging before dinner. The link is below. Now let's back to the video. There is this idea that every problems have been solved already that you you can't come up with something new and that's kind of true because we are really living in a saturated uh market saturated world where every time you have an idea you can check it out and someone has built it already. Um it's very frustrating but it doesn't mean that you can't create businesses and and this is a very important point to understand. A saturated market is not a bad market. On the contrary a saturated market is a good market because if there are businesses it means there is demand. So this is something you want to explore uh rather than avoid at all cost to find your own market where there is no one because if there is no competitor then there is no customers. So, bakeries. There are 39,000 bakeries in France today. Yeah, I'm talking about bakeries because you get it. I'm I'm French and we This is a big thing in France. You have them in every single little village. There are bakeries, right? But still, eight new bakeries are created every single day in France alone. and seven bakeries are closing every single day. What does that tell you is that first of all, it's a growing market. You have more businesses created than uh businesses that are closing. But the fact that this is a solid and stable business and look at the curve here means that people can enter over time and it will continue growing. It doesn't matter the the amount of competition within this market. And that's very important to understand because a bakery is a bakery. You have different ways to approach it. But in the end, it delivers bread and just a bunch of other very good stuff. Uh but it's still a bakery. It is still viable to create a bakery in France today because this is a stable and growing market. When you enter this market, you have different ways to operate. You can think of okay, what is the location that is growing somewhere, I don't know like a residential area that is in just started the construction and you can spot that the demand will grow there. So you can uh bet on a new location and open a bakery there to serve these people or you can also enter an area that is already busy and just try to make a better product. Do your best to deliver the best product to your customer. And you can also uh go with a better service. You can make sure that the experience is amazing and so on and so forth. You have different ways to differentiate yourself. So you can simply copy, you can differentiate and then you you can just find a good location. Anyway, it's just to show you that a crowded market doesn't mean you can't enter a market. All right, let's move on to the next step. Research the market and extract the pain point. Um, I have a full video on the starter story uh YouTube channel um that I will link in the description that shows you a chain of prompt that you can use from uh like just exploring uh a specific market and extracting the all the pain points that people have in this market and create generate some business ideas uh with AI from those pain points. So I'm not going to go too deep into that but the idea is to understand the market to the point that you understand what are the major problems that people are facing within this market. So to go back to the breastfeeding market um a simple prompt is just to give you an example but a simple prompt on charge PT would give you like the major pain points. So comfort and pain relief, supply issues, uh convenience and mobility, sleep schedule disruption, uh diet, health tracking. So already you can see that you have this stable kind of growing market um that is huge and that contains a complete set of problem for itself. And each of these problems uh can be a a bunch of different solutions that uh can be offered to the customers. So once you have found the pain points then you want to identify the market opportunity which means you want to dig into each of these pain points. Again, you can do it with AI and I will link the video in the description, the videos in the description so you can uh see how to do it. But you can also simply search read forums and understand what are the major pain point that people are struggling with within this already in demand market. Once you have them, you want to understand now how are they currently solving those pain points because it it it is just not possible that you have a growing market uh a major pain point and no solutions. You will never find that. If there is no solution, dig more because there is a problem. You didn't you miss something because as we said every market is saturated. So you will find competitors and you will see how are they using how how are they solving this problem and now it's the moment to identify market gaps. So you have found the markets you have found a painoint and then you have found the people that are currently solving these problems and you have different choices that are offered to you. The first one is that you can simply copy what's already existing. And I come from uh I started learning marketing with drop shipping uh back in 2017. And the whole business model was around finding something that is already working with a lot of people running ads and just copying and run ads too. And it worked. It it surprising surprisingly works. It doesn't it's not because something I've someone have created a solution for a problem that you can't just copy this solution and run it. It will work. If this is a good solution in a growing market, it will work. You will take a share of the market. So don't shy away of copying in an ethical way of course and the best way is still to add value on top. And when you are copying you can either copy one unique feature in my last video. I talked a lot about this specific approach. I will link uh the video in the description as well. Uh or you can also copy it entirely. It's up to you. Another approach is to differentiate. So how do you differentiate from um what's already existing? then you can choose to address a different audience. Which means for example, if I go back to my breastfeeding, uh let's say I'm building an app to track um the diet while breastfeeding um and all the health tracking that comes with it. And I can see that there are like plenty of existing solutions, existing apps. Then I can say, for example, I'm going to make a breastfeeding app specifically for vegan people. And I'm I didn't check. I don't know if there is one existing probably. Uh but this is just to show you how you can take something that exists, just copy what they do, but adapt it to people that have different constraints because they are vegan. So at this point you are within differentiation and you are differentiating by choosing a different audience. You can choose a different marketing channel. For example, if you find out that the leader in the market you are targeting is only running um organic content. So they are doing a lot of short form videos, maybe they have some long form videos and and this that's how they get their traffic on their app. You can run ads. I mean assuming you you are willing to go into it but you know it's just to show you you can just go with a different source of traffic a different marketing channel or the other way around is true or you can just focus on SEO and you create a complete programmatic SEO campaign uh up to the point that you are getting your traffic only by people reading your blog articles while every other competitor is doing ads or is doing short form videos or whatever they are doing could choose your own marketing channel and that's how you differentiate. So in this case you can literally uh copy something and then go with a different marketing channel or and I think this one is probably the the smartest one is to choose a different business model. What I am talking about by different business model is how do you extract value from a a user basically there are plenty of different ways and um especially in the SAS world it's always about subscription which is a good business model but there is a lot of downside over it like people are are tired to have thousands and thousands of subscriptions. So let's imagine again let's take our example of breastfeeding and let's say we are uh we want to build in this specific space. We found out there is no opportunity. So why not um reaching out to all the big brands within the um the diet the nutrition industry that supports breastfeeding. and to make the app free but make affiliate deals with every brand. So the app will be free but then the monetization would be made through recommendation of product people can use. So this way you are literally offering something free but you are making money on the back end by uh getting a piece of the the the cake uh of the actual nutrition. That's just an example and I'm also planning on making a video about all the different business models that you can combine in order to create your own. I think you got the point. It's like how do you reverse the situation and extract value in a different way and now you can also innovate and I will tell it uh straight. I think this is the hardest part uh and unfortunately it's probably the one that most of entrepreneurs are going into at first because it feels it always feels that to succeed you need to create something that didn't exist before and that's not true and that's why I showed you the bakery before because this is a good example of no you don't need to reinvent the wheel you can just you you you better off doing those two rather than innovate. And especially especially if it's your first business for um serial entrepreneurs, yes, they have founding they they they have support network. They can take a bigger risk. But this innovate here is a bigger risk. There is a bigger reward for sure, but there is a way bigger risk and you can end up spending a lot of time for something that you could have avoided by using those. It's just logic. It's just logic. You have a growing market. You found the pain point. You understand that there are already solutions for them. you can see how are the competitors doing, how much traffic do they have, how how successful they are. So when you understand that you know you are are going into a good market then you identify how can I take what already exist and then add my value on top or just simply as I said copy it. This is just logic. It it will work if it's just a matter of execution when you do that. While when you innovate, it's not a matter of execution anymore. It's a matter of did you pick the right idea and that's a complete different problem. All right, let's move on. So assuming uh we want to differentiate and let's say we we take the example of um our breastfeeding app for vegan. So we have it's not a different business model actually uh it's this one. So now you have the the market you are operating in, you have the problem you are solving and you have the audience that you are addressing. So, this is when you want to do a deep customer research that is specifically addressed to um the audience. And I have a full video on how to use AI to do that and to use AI to build what I call a master prompt that is going to uh give you something that you can uh reuse again and again to create all your marketing assets including the smoke test that we are going to see including landing pages, emails, ads, short form videos, long form videos, whatever. Uh I will link uh this video in the description for you to check out. Before we go into the smoke test, um there is another thing that happens at the same moment. So this is the moment where you start thinking of the products and not before only now because you know that you are not wasting your time uh digging technically into the possibility of building this product. uh you're only doing it after you make sure that this is a validate validated idea that this is a valid opportunity. So you want to do the operational validation which means you want to make sure you can build the product. So if there are some bottlenecks you are not sure you can do then this is the moment you can go and and check out to to to make sure you will be able to deliver in the end. Most of the time you can. It's just like you also want to make sure that it's always possible to deliver but you want to make sure it is in your uh that you have the means to do it. If it's not too time consuming, if it doesn't require some techn technology you don't have access to or you need to learn it will take too long. You want to make sure you are going into something that you're not drawing in. And then if you want while you are doing the deep customer research you can start building it. And in my previous frameworks on how to start a business, the building came after the launch. Um but meanwhile something very important changed is the ability we have to create products uh in a way that is extremely fast. So it is not impossible to actually build an MVP uh in a in in two or three days. So you can do your smoke test with an actual MVP at some point if you want. So yeah, you can but you don't have to uh build at the same moment. Okay, now let's go back onto the smoke test and I quickly want to show you how it looks and I will have a complete video dedicated to it. Uh the idea of the smoke test very quickly is to create um a MVP, a marketing MVP that is bringing that you will send traffic to on a landing page that will show the product as if it would exist already. So when people land on this landing page, they're really saying the product exist. And on this landing page, you have a call to action that explain people what's the next step. And when they click on it, they are shown a popup or first of all, they are led to a quiz, a quiz or survey. You can call it the way you want. Uh basically a way to ask them questions. The first thing you want to do is to explain why they are going to answer questions. So it's simple. It's hey thank you for being here and for your interest. The app that you are that you want to see is not there yet. It's in the building. Meanwhile, uh would you uh could you take one minute to answer a few questions? So, we are sure that we are making the app that fits to your needs. Most of the time you'll be surprised how how often people are okay to just answer a few questions and that's where you start gathering data. So first of all is you want to know who they are. Then you want to understand what bothered them. And then you want to use a painful scale, a pain scale or I don't remember how I called it, but basically you want to ask from a scale of 1 to 10, how painful is this specific problem in your life. And that that's amazing because when you start gathering data and now you can see right away if it's something that is extremely painful, that is a good business idea. If you are uh here, if you are like at nine out of 10, then this is a very painful problem and you know that if you come up with solution, it will work because people really want to solve it. Uh you want to ask them if they already tried something else and if if so what. Um do they have a solution in mind like h how would they see the app working for example? And then you can ask them okay cool now let's uh and thank you for answering the the questions um would you like me to um tell you when we are launching most of people at this point would say yes sure next question okay can you uh give me your email address and I will make sure that you are informed as soon as we launch and then you start gathering people on your waiting list basically but you didn't only get people on your waiting list you learned a lot along the way which is the most important thing and wait that's the the better part here is that depending on the different questions so who are they and for example the scale let's assume I'm I'm making up an example here but let's assume that in my the thing I wanted to really understand um the people I really wanted to target for my breastfeeding vegan app was um first time um f first child vegan um people. So who are they? And maybe you know I can add a question about is it your first child and how painful it is. So at this point I can have the people seeing an invitation for a quick call but it will only be shown to the people that have their first child and for which the pain of really knowing what they should eat is higher than eight. So, at this point, I will have a bunch of calls showing up on my calendar because or or at least a list of people that I can try to call myself that I've accepted to give me a little bit of their time for me to really understand the pain they have and how I can solve them. And it's not like I am having hundreds of unqualified ones. I'm only having the ones that I chose because in the way that I'm building this quiz, then I'm only showing it to the people I want to talk to. So, this is another way of validating and talking to customers by doing a smoke test is like we show them something that is exactly as if it would exist. So, we already understand if they would click on something like that. Then, we ask them questions and we see how painful this problem is for them. We put them on the waiting list and we ask only the the the most important ones if they are willing um to get on a conversation to have a conversation about their specific pain point and that's how you start learning more and more about the people you are going to serve with your product. Okay, so that's it for the smoke test. I think you got it by now. You basically gather information um validate demand here at the same time. You make sure you can make build the product and maybe you build it. And once you have enough people in your waiting list, it it's just up to you how much how long you want to wait or just validating if you have a few a dozen would be enough. Uh you can simply launch right away. But at this point when you launch you know that you have a product that would work. But there is another question. The question uh that is probably the most important is it's it's good to have a to create this smoke test but how do I bring people uh onto it? Like how do I acquire traffic if I start from nothing? If I don't have an audience how do I do it? So, there are a few ways, like actually a bunch of ways, but I'm not going I didn't list them all here. I just listed the ones that are the most suited to, let's say, first-time entrepreneur that is on its own and wants to make it uh fast, wants to attract traffic fast, quote unquote, depends. So I will talk about paid ads uh just later um later on but we have outbound traffic and inbound traffic. So the difference is outbound traffic you are going to reach out to someone and it could be via cold email works for B2B or could be that cold DMs. It works for B2B as well. called DMs like reaching out to people on LinkedIn, Twitter or on different communities and it's just like engaging conversations and gathering people on your app. For a B2C app, Outbound is quite tough. You can uh you probably also have Reddit could be considered as one although it's a little bit different. Reddit is more like it's it's a sensible it's a it's a sort of social setting. You want to enter a conversation on different forums, community, you can do that on school, you can do that on everywhere people hang out. You can engage conversation and lead them as the next step to your product. But you need to deliver value. You probably know what I'm talking about at this point. But let's say outbound is more for B2B apps. But then you have inbound. So basically the idea is that you reverse it. It's not you are not reaching out to people. you are putting yourself out there and then people reach out to you and you have the the main ways um nowadays to do it are short form writing. Think of LinkedIn, Twitter um even Instagram could be considered as short form writing although there isn't only uh writing involved. um short form videos probably the best organic way to attract traffic and it goes with YouTube short it goes with uh Instagram Tik Tok and also LinkedIn and Twitter uh introduced more and more video so if you're able to create videos then this is a very good way to attract traffic especially because of the algorithm the way it works now um it will pick up only the things that people are reacting to. So you can literally transform your short form video production into a sort of lab and testing different messages, different uh approaches and see what resonates with people and in this way you can learn a lot about the people that are coming to your to your product basically. Then you have YouTube. Uh YouTube I'm I'm talking more about the long form here. It's a little bit longer. Although it is a very valuable way that is completely underrated and and and I think most people overink YouTube. I did for a very long time. So I know what I'm talking about. It's not that hard. It doesn't require a fancy uh setting. It just requires like you talking uh showing your screen loom. You don't even have to have like a uh your face on it. You can just show things and people you will find people and if it's relevant then um people will click on your links and you start gathering people traffic on your smoke test basically. Then you have uh SEO. SEO is probably the it's not the one I'm doing the most and I'm the most comfortable with and especially these days SEO is changing a lot uh with the AI search. Although uh it's not changing that much because what is going to change is the fact that the traffic is not coming from Google but the traffic has to come the traffic exists. So the more SEO means how you it's not only for Google it's how you create content on the internet and link link all to all of that together so every search engine will find it uh when and give it to the people that is looking for it. So of course YouTube is also having an SEO part that you should use. Not only but uh a big part of YouTube is SEO and this is still a val valuable way to acquire traffic. It is just longer but you can also automate a big part of it with programmatic SEO AI um could be dangerous but you you can do it. And finally pads. So, paid ads is literally my favorite because then you can create a scientific approach. And believe me, I have a video where I talk about it that I'm also going to link in the description. But people always think this is cheaper. But never consider the time that it takes to create this and the cost of opportunity because the time that you are working on that you are not working on making a better product, talking with potential users, potential customers um or simply like finding out that it didn't work and move on to the next one. So there is a very uh high cost in terms of time uh and cost of opportunity by doing only organic thinking that you are saving money. ads. Uh on the other way, ads are a way to it's a skill that when once you learn it once, then you can reuse it again and again. And for each product you want to set up, you can have a complete process where you would say, "Okay, I'm going to spend, I don't know, $2 $300, make um 20 different ads, run them all, and see what's what's going on." And you will learn so much and you will attract traffic for sure in in a scientific way. What I mean by that is you will target different pain points. So you will see who are are the people from which pain points they are coming to your smoke test and you will see that in a regular way. um as opposite as for example if you do short form video you can also target different pain points but you will never see uh maybe one of them will be taken off by the algorithm but you can't control that with paid ads you can say you can tell exactly how much budget are you spending per marketing angle per pain point so you can see which one of them is converting the best on your smoke test so now you have a complete picture of what should I talk about here to bring the right people so they go into my waiting list uh and become a potential user. You know exactly where it's starting and you can basically only do that with ads. Um you can partially do that with organic but the best way is definitely to run ads. It's just a set of skills that is probably way simpler than you think um to learn. Um but then you can reuse it for every product that you are building. All right. So let's recap what we have seen so far. Um what you want at the beginning is always always to find a growing market or a stable market where there is demand. Within this market, you want to understand what are the major pain points that people are struggling with, which gives you a list of potential opportunities that you will understand more by researching the competitors that are already solvings solving those pain points in this in demand market. Once you have this list of competitor, then you have a choice that is offered to you. You can either copy exactly what they are doing and just don't overink it. um valuable option. Keep it ethical though as much as possible of course. Um but it's it's possible. You can differentiate by for example having a different audience, a different marketing channel, a different business model or you can choose to innovate which is the most dangerous quote unquote but could be also the most rewarding. It's not the one I would advise for especially for first-time founders. Once you have found a way to um generate value and you can say at this point this is a validated idea because it has a growing market and there are competitors and you will create something with more value in it. Then you will conduct a deep uh customer research because at this point you really know exactly what you are looking for. So you want to understand the the customer as much as possible. At the same time you are conducting an operational validation by just making sure that you can build the product and if you want to go into building it's a little bit early but at least it's better than uh building right here uh if you know what I mean. So you can also build it because we build very fast. Now you have your master prompt. again link in the description to find out how to build the master prompt and you can use that to create your smoke test landing page which will uh gather a lot of information about your potential customers and put them on the waiting list and you attract people on this smoke test with you just have to pick one um way especially you you don't need to do them all right I would always recommend you to go for paid ads because I think it's a completely underrated skill. Um, but otherwise you can also fairly go with u inbound if you are in B2C and outbound if you are in B2B. You you can segment it this way. It's way easier to understand. And once you have gathered enough information, then that's the moment you want to launch. And that's it for this video. I hope it wasn't too theoretical. I wanted to kind of create a complete package of the idea of how to go about it and I show way more uh in the trenches or examples things in my other videos can link in the description and for the next step if you are currently at this point if you are looking for an idea and you don't know how to validate an idea then you can watch one of these two video that I'm putting on the screen right now and if you are more at this step which means you already have an idea but you don't know how to get people into it and generate the marketing for it, then I'm going to put the other videos. So, you have two choices. It depends on where you are at at the moment. And I see you on the other side. Bye-bye.