# State of AI Code Quality Hype vs Reality

Published: 2025-12-11

[music] I'm really excited being here. So many so much pragmatic and insight and suggestions. I was sitting there uh just just before. So I'm Edomar Freriedman the CEO and co-founder of Kodto. Codto stands for quality of development and I'm going to share uh our reports and other companies reports about state of AI code quality. Uh you know trying to uh talk about the hype versus reality which was uh like one of the uh points that were discussed here quite a lot which is awesome. So in the last three weeks, four weeks, we saw like three outages in the clouds, unfortunately, right? And these are coming from companies that really care about moving fast, right? They're they're they're saying themselves that they're using AI to generate code 10%, 30%, 50%, at the same time, they care about quality. So how did that happen? And is it is it related? I don't know. But let's have some I'm going to share some guess. So by the way 60% of developers say that the like quarter of their code is either generated by AI or in in like uh uh shaped by I and 15% say that even more than 80 80% of their code uh is basically generated or or shaped by AI. Now people are using AI to do vibe coding but actually they're even doing it for vibe checking vibe reviewing. This is the command of cloud. This is the prompt for the command of claude code for security review. It was hyped like two months ago. Do you know what I'm talking about now? It says there, I don't know if you see it. Uh you are a senior security engineer. Good. And then like somewhere there uh down the line it says please exclude denial of service. Don't don't uh catch denial of service issues. Maybe that's part of the part of the reason like we're we're having uh cloud outages. probably not just that, but you get the point. Like we need to be rigorous about how we deal with quality. It's not just like vibe quality or or so like we're doing vibe coding sometimes. Uh let's go to another example. Okay, cursor I guess like or or pilot most of you use rules, right? We're going to talk about it. You invest in code generation. After a while, you understand if you invest, you'll get more out of it. And uh we we asked like a bunch of of developers and I'm asking you as well think think for a second for all the developers there in the audience like when you write cursor rules or copilot rules etc. Do you feel they're completely followed or it's like mostly followed? Do you know how much they're followed? And what extent are they followed? It's rigorously like how technical deep they're they're being followed. So the what we get back like the answer from what you see here on the screen is mostly like B, C, and D. They are followed but they're not completely followed. Okay. So that means like we are generating code trying to push it to the standards but it's not necessarily still like getting to the quality we wanted. I'm going to share a bit more statistics and and information and some insight from three reports. One done by Codo, another by done by Sonar, another by far. And all of them are are focused on code code quality review etc. The sample size is thousands of developers in some cases even more. Millions of pull requests and and a billion of of lines lines of code that were uh uh being checked. Like for example, if you think about uh Sonar, this is a company. Yeah. A bit like coming from pre-AII, but they see code at scale and you they're doing like a lot of uh checks in code that are not necessarily AI focused, but are necessary in order to check uh your your software from all possible direction. And that's why their scaling and the scale of the code that they're seeing is is immense. Okay. So for example, we took information from from their report and eventually my purpose here is to break down the different dimension of what uh code quality means and give you some share some stats and and insights. I want to start with the end. Okay, this is the takeaway I want you all all like to take from from the next 13 minutes that I have. We started with code generation. We like out of the box use it autocomplete etc. and you invest in it and you can get more out of it. But there's a glass ceiling for how much productivity you can get from code generation. And then we move to the agent code generation, right? Let's call it gen 2.0. And that's a higher glass ceiling. It could do much more productivity and especially if you invest in it, for example, rules, etc. Then with AI breaking outside of the IDE, we can start using AI also for code for agentic quality workflows. It could be inside the ID, but the the truth is that if you think about all the workflows you have in your organization, especially if you're more than 100 developers or so, you probably have a lot of workflows that you are related to quality that you need to auto automate. And that's where you start like breaking through the glass ceiling of productivity. if you invest in it. And finally, I I claim that you need those agentic workflows. Keep learning. And we might touch a little bit of that like later later on, okay? Like because quality is something dynamic. So you'll only finally break break the glass ceiling if if you really have those quality workflows and rules and standard being dynamic. And then then you will see the promised 2x, let alone the 10x that you were promised the hyped. and you you heard from McKenzie and from Stanford you're not getting that I don't need to tell you that 2x 10x for that entire software development uh life cycle so a bit about more about the market adoption uh one of the report says that 82% of adoption already for AI dev tools are being used daily or weekly uh some people at 60 60% 59 report that they're using more than three and 20% saying they're using more than five code generation tools If you think about it for a second, uh don't only take like cursor copilot, codex, cloud code, etc. Sorry if I'm insulting anyone in the that I forgot their tool, but there's also the lovable etc. They also generate code. And by the way, you're going to get to 10. I'm count on me. You're going to get to 10 tools in two three years that generate code for you. Okay, come to talk to me about later. I'll try to convince you. And and the thing is that it it's coming from bottom up. like 50% of the usage is coming from less than 10 teams that are less than 10 developers but it is propagating also to the enterprise again I'm sure you know I mean talk propagating to the enterprise at scale like not just like five developers in the last year we're seeing like more and more enterprise using co code generation u so if like an average with within reports we saw 82 to 92% using weekly to a monthly uh code generation tools and in some cases Maybe extreme, maybe not. We're going to talk about it. We saw 3x productivity boost in writing code. Okay, but that doesn't mean that if you have uh 3x productivity in writing code that you actually guarantee any quality like I presented before. So actually 67% of the developer that we ask asked have serious quality concerns about all the AI generated all the generated code uh uh code generated by AI or influenced by AI and they're claiming that they're missing the framework how to deal with quality how to measure quality. It's a big question. What is quality? I'm going to talk about it in the next few slides. Okay, think about it for a second before I break break it down. What what is quality? Um so what we're actually saying that the crisis with V right coding uh viable coding we're seeing it shifting and evolving is that you're getting like more task being done like 20 some report 20% more task you know velocity and like 97 more% or so of PRs being opened and eventually it takes more time to review PR like 90% more time to review PR and by the way like there's a lot of statistics about AI generating ating code at least there's not less amount of bugs per line of code I'm not claiming that there are more but even if there's not less bugs per line of code you have much more bugs because there are much more PRs much more code being generated etc right so that that's a problem for the reviewer so it's somebody's surprise it takes more time to review these especially in the age of agents right when 5 minutes calling to cloud code I have 1,000 line of code after 5 minutes once upon a time it took me like hours to write 10 proper lines of code. Right now, let's zoom out for a second. Code generation is magnificent. Okay? Like it it's a gamecher when you're talking about green field. You saw people talk about it a few slides a few minutes before me. Uh it it revolutionized how we do PE proof of concept uh project etc. But when you're dealing with heavyduty software then you you like it or not we are dealing with a lot of things when uh when you serve millions of clients you have financial transactions when you're doing transportation you're dealing with code integrity if you like code governance uh review standards testing relability etc. That's what we need to uh uh to deal with. Now let's break that under the surface part of the glacier into two dimensions. This is one dimension. You can look on the qual quality issues in throughout the software development life cycle like planning and then development writing code review. C code review is a bit of a process but like what you're like checking quality that's part of the process of code review testing which is another part of of quality and and deployment. And I know I didn't cover the entire like software development life cycle but just to give you an example and each one of them like possess like introduce new problems that are coming because you're using more and more AI generated code. Um now another dimension to look at it is actually code level problems and process level problems. Okay, I'm not I'm not opening the you know list of functional just opening the list of non-functional. you're talking about security and efficiency that are not necessarily uh functional use. I I'll show you some statistics about that. And then process level is for example learning. Hey, if you will have a a a bad outage because of AI generated code, who is responsible? Is it the AI or or the team that own that? Okay. Like you need to learn and own the code eventually. That's a process that needs to be done. verification, porting guard rails, standards, uh, etc. So, so all of those issues when they're introduced to thousands of developer that we asked them, do you think like actually AI helped to reduce with those problems or or actually made more like more challenging 42 people reported that they spend 42 more of the development time on solving issues, on fixing bugs, etc. and and they saw 35 uh% project delays. We're talking about we're talking about maybe games they're talking about like delays. Okay, there's some bias. We told them we talked about problem with quality and what's the impact etc. Um but that's what they they they present uh to when they they answer uh when when they're talking about like when you're mass using AI code AI generated code and we see reports uh some of the reports talking about 3x more security inc incidents by the way it makes sense you remember we had a slide saying 3x more writing code so 3x more security incidents like the same amount of line of code the same amount of uh uh problems correlation so what to do with that like I talked about problems and problems and problems Okay, help help me deal with it. Like let's let's spend a few minutes on on that. So one one suspect of course is testing and actually really interesting we asked a couple of question about testing and one really relevant saying that people said that when they heavily [clears throat] use AI to on testing use AI to do testing they actually double their trust in the AI generated code. Okay, that's one thing. The ne next suspect to help us with the quality is code review. What really interesting about code review that it's a process that helps almost with all the process level and the code level like issues. For example, you can set your AI code review tool to tell you block this PR if it doesn't cover certain level of test coverage. So through the PR you take care of the testing process problem. Okay. So code like code review with AI is actually one of one of the major things you you you can do and people that are developers that are using AI code review tool they're saying that they're saying they're seeing double the quality gain and they're saying that actually it's it helps them to uh improve improve 47% in productivity of writing code. Okay. Now a bit statistics from our own uh AI code review tool. We scan a million of PRs a month and we took one mill million of those PRs and we noticed that 17% include like high severity issues. By the way, we're now analyzing uh before and after using AI. I don't have that statistics yet, but we are noticing since we're starting uh most of the companies we serve, they use AI generated code. So that's why uh I don't have before. We need to go scan backwards. Uh and that's like a really big a big number. Another thing I want to talk to you like about uh when you're trying to improve on quality is is the foundation of having the right context that is brought to the uh code generation tool that is brought to the AI code review tool better context better quality across the board wherever you're using AI. Uh so when we asked developers when when you h when you don't trust AI generated code like you remember like 67% that like are really worried about that they said 80 80% of the time they don't trust the context that the LLM have okay and and and uh when we asked developers what would you like to be improved in your AI generated code in your AI code review tool they said the number one was context it was number one of 33% they can choose among many things to to improve. So context is extremely important. I can tell you that as Kodto one of our technology moes uh is is around context and when you connect our context engine we're seeing it as the number one tool that is being used like 60% of code generator or code review tools 60% of their calls to an MCP would be to a context MCP. Okay. And just to tell you the context doesn't necessarily need to include only your code. It could also include context to your standards, your best practices. We're seeing in our AI code review that 8% of the context usage is actually from files that are related to standards and and best practices etc. Okay, I have to CEO of Kodo like marketing will be mad on me if I don't brag a little bit. Right? So this is uh kind of like our market of our context engine being presented by Jensen and GTC keynote and he notice he didn't talk about our co code review capabilities about our testing capabilities he talked about our context engine that Nvidia checked because there's a realization that AI quality AI generated whatever review testing will come from bringing the right context to invest in that you need to to build your context buy a solution and invest in it build your solution uh etc. And the context needs to include code uh uh versioning PR history uh organization logs etc. That's where all the context sits. It's not just in the last branch of your codebase. Okay. So I'm I'm zooming out starting to talk about like recommendations and uh and like uh takeaways. So what what what's next? So automated uh quality gateways invest in that. People talked throughout the morning about parallel agents. You know what I'm talking about like background agents. You can use a lot of those like tools and capabilities to build build your quality gates. Uh use intelligent code review testing and you need a living and breathing like documentation and and what documentation means is is a story by itself. Uh I'm not going to double click on it. And and this is how I present for three years now and I think I'm gonna go all the way until age of 60 with this slide of how I think the future of software development looks like. Okay. So basically you have your specification and you have your code right and you have multiple agents parallel agents that are helping you to improve your spec write your spec improve your code transfer transfer from your spec to your to your code uh uh make tests which are executable specs right uh and and then you're going to have your context engine the software development database and you will build your tools especially MCPs around quality and verification and you'll Make sure you have environments, stable, secured sandboxes where those agents can run and and run validation and quality uh workflows. So don't don't forget like the path forward is quality is your competitive edge over your uh competition. AI is a tool. It's not it's not a solution. Okay? And don't like only think about code generation as the only thing. Look on the entire SDLC or product development life cycle. I saw one of the uh people talked um speakers and it iterate with everything we talked about today. I have uh I want to tell you that you will gain value from it. We're seeing in the reports people seeing like security availability being reduced faster code review you we just got a hit on that because of a generated code and test coverage in a month can can triple depends on on the project etc. with with the last minute I want to show like a really small piece of what you can do with codo. uh you can go into codto and define your own rule for example almost the same rule you'll put on cursor of I don't like nested ifs if this is a problem that you have but then kodto will look on your context build the good example the bad example and then start giving like building a workflow that is specifically to catch that issue and give you statistics over time when it's being accepted and when not so you can adjust that rule and really know and have visibility to to your standards. Okay. So when a PR is written with a few ifs and else although it was written with cursor copilot that had a rule do not do nested ifs etc. then eventually when you open a PR you will get uh codo uh uh catching that and giving a suggestion according to the good and the bad example. COD will also make a graph, give you a CLI checks like check each one of the rules and eventually tell you the nested if and then we'll record and learn what you did or did not do with that suggestion in order to adapt the standard and of the of the quality. Um there will also automated like suggestion. You don't need to write your own. It learns your your your standards and quality and offer that to you. And that's it. I'm I'm really really excited about like breaking the glass ceiling, okay, with what we did with code generation and then a jet to code generation. Now we're turning into the era of putting AI into work and through the entire SDLC. The most important part is related to quality. You would need to invest in that. It's not out of the box. Okay. And then you would see eventually the promised 2x that that probably promised to the CEO or something like that once they give you the budget for for the relevant tools. Thank you so much. [music]