# Nikon ZR vs Sony FX3 Comparison

Published: 2025-09-15

This is the Sony FX3 that I've been using for the last few years. And this is the challenger. And if you're like me, you're trying to figure out should you buy or keep the FX3 or go with the new Nikon Red camera. That's what we're going to try to answer in this video. If you're interested, I'm going to try to give you some more information as best I can cuz this camera is wild and it's like half the price of this one. That [Music] Buying a new camera is a big deal. It's a big investment of money. And it's not just the body. It's also the lenses, cages, microphones, and all the other accessories. So, I'm going to do my best to give you advice and help you make your next camera purchase decision. I don't know how this happened. Uh, Nikon bought Red and their first camera together, the Nikon Red ZR is incredible and you're seeing people's reactions. Now, this was like one of the hardest secrets for me to keep just because I I knew this camera is special. And I think right now the best proumer cameras on the market are the FX3 and the Nikon ZR in this kind of category of cameras. And that is the calculus that all of us are going to be doing is should I stick with FX3 or should I switch to Sony or should I go with the Nikon ZR which feels I I I know this feel I'm having the exact same feeling like Nikon are you are you sure like it feels a little like I don't know if I trust this and I think it'll take a little while for people to actually like open themselves up to like potentially switching cuz it's just so outlandish. And I think as we're doing this comparison, we need to keep in mind that the Nikon ZR is almost half the price of the FX3. It's only $2,200. And so for some people, that's already the nail in the coffin for the FX3. They just can't go there. That's too much money. It's too expensive. And so automatically, the ZR just becomes like the deacto perfect situation for them. That being said, this is the comparison between the Sony FX3, my favorite camera for the last 5 years, and the brand new Nikon ZR. We're going to go through lots of sideby-side comparisons. You're going to get my honest realtime feedback, talk about the autofocus, the slow motion, the LCD, card slot, low light, file sizes, all of it. But as we do, keep in mind that price. And I will say as I was editing my Nikon ZR video, I was just getting more and more excited about this camera. It is so easy to color grade. The image looks incredible. And so, yeah, I I might be slightly on the ZR hype right now, but I think it might be for good reason. I've I've always been one of these people that if Canon makes the best camera for me, I switch to Canon immediately. If Fujifilm makes the best camera for me, I switch to Fujifilm immediately. I have no loyalty in terms of like what brand I use. But at the same time, when I think this is the best camera, I will tell everyone about it and I I feel like the ZR might be replacing the FX3 as this camera that I tell everybody about. So, first off, let's talk about the biggest thing, image quality. That is the biggest point, the biggest thing that all of us are going to be looking at and comparing. And so let's take a look at some of these side by sides cuz I think it'll be quite eyeopening. So I'm noticing a few things, three big things here. First off, to me, the ZR has so much more actual detail. Not just like let's sharpen actual detail. Now obviously we're shooting in 6K Red RAW versus H.265 on the FX3, but that's that's the best we can get out of the FX3. And so that's the comparison that we have to make. And I think this actually is like a apples to apples comparison. The data rate is a little different, but like pretty much this is apples to apples. This is how I would compare them right away. To me, the colors look more natural on the ZR. I like them more. Even though I I like FX3 colors a lot. I'm super used to them, too. I I love it. But I will say the ZR right out of the camera looks better to me. And I often look at the detail part. There's a big difference between just sharpening and detail. And when you like punch in, you notice pretty quickly that on FX3, there isn't actually that much like detail. Like it's it's it gets pretty mushy pretty quick. If you just zoom in even a little bit and start really pixel peeping, it still looks great somehow. I I I love the way it looks still. I think that 12 megapixel sensor just works well. And I'm I'm surprised other companies haven't, you know, caught on to that. Like, why does it work so well? But the 24 megapixel sensor of the Nikon with the Red Raw, there's way more detail. You look at the beard, you look at the hair, there's just so much more detail there without it looking like digitally sharp, if that makes sense. And that is super important to me. I don't want digital sharpness. I hate that. In fact, I'm usually throwing on lenses that like dumb down the digital sharpness look. But this doesn't look digital sharp. Actually, the FX3 looks more digitally sharpened to me, which kind of makes sense. And the ZR looks just like it has more detail. And then I'm also noticing right away that the ZR just has more dynamic range. The FX3 has great dynamic range. The ZR, in my opinion, has more. And when you're actually real world using it, to me, throughout this whole process, the ZR has more dynamic range. And that is like one of the most important things I can think about in terms of a camera. And even my editor Spencer, when he was looking at the ZR footage, he's like, "This looks similar to like airy footage." And I I'm not I haven't done a comparison between airy and the ZR, but I agree. It looks really detailed and nice, and the dynamic range is incredible. Now, interestingly, kind of like on the Aries, I feel like there is maybe a little bit more noise on the ZR. Like, if you really pixel peep, it looks like there's more noise than on the FX3. Again, maybe this makes sense, but I would maybe characterize it more as like the the FX3 has like big noise and like if you go off base ISO, it gets real bad real fast. You can basically only use 640 and 12,800. On the ZR, the noise looks a lot like finer, and it kind of looks like there's more chroma, like colored noise, but at the same time, it's more reminiscent of film grain to me, if that makes sense. And maybe just cuz it's smaller and not as like digital blocky. But yeah, that's like a if you want a super clean image, like yeah, you can d noiseise and that kind of stuff. To me, I I really like the Nikon ZR image, which is even as I'm saying that, I'm like, what? It's a Nikon. You can't say that about Nikon video. Nikon video is not good. And here I am saying that I really, really like the Nikon ZR image like, and color grading it. When I was color grading this footage, I've always liked color grading the FX3 footage. I think it's really easy to color grade. I think the Nikon ZR image is so much easier to color grade. Like, really easy. Like I I think maybe the only other camera that I've had this experience with is airy footage where airy footage is just consistently good somehow. And there aren't these like edge cases where like I just can't get this to look nice. Um I felt the same way with the Nikon ZR footage where every time it was just easy to color grade it. There was never like a oh I have to I have to do a ton of work to get this like to a good place. It just looked good. Um, and I think the colors look more accurate to life. At least I'm noticing like on the Sony footage, there's always a bit of like a green tint to it. The Nikon ZR looks a lot more balanced straight out of camera in my opinion. Now, we can get the FX3 to the right point pretty easily, but it's nice to just have it right out of the camera. Now, some of you are still going to be like, "Well, this is still unfair. You're you're comparing RED RAW and then H.265." And I agree. So, let's take a look at some of the H.265 footage. And uh yeah, I think once we get to the H.265 footage, that's where like I I I described in my review that there's it feels like there's two cameras inside this ZR. There's the the Nikon camera and there's the Red camera. The Red camera is sick. The Nikon camera is So, when you're shooting an H.265, the colors right away go a little bit wonky. They're not as nice as in the FX3 in my opinion. Takes a lot more work to get it to a good place. And like I was talking about earlier, sometimes it's just like ah I can't get this to look like I want it to. All right. After looking at the footage more, I I am less inclined to say that the FX3 looks better. Um I think maybe I'm I'm also just way more used to the FX3, so it's way easier for me to get the colors where I want them to be. Um, I think the image actually does look really, really nice also in H.265. It's just going from the red look then to the Nikon H.265. It's such a big change that maybe that's also throwing me off a little bit. But I will say it's not clearcut that the FX3 is better here. I think in some ways the ZR is better. It's got more detail and stuff. In some ways, I think the colors a little bit easier to work with on the FX3. So, for me, it's kind of hard to say, but maybe that's a good thing. Maybe maybe this part is stupid now because um I don't necessarily think what I said anymore. I'm also noticing that basically on every shot there's more contrast in the midtones. Not like the overall contrast, just in the mid tones. There's more contrast on the Nikon than on the FX3. So it just makes things pop a little bit more. I think I like that because you're still getting the full dynamic range, but then just like the midtones have a little bit more like it's not clarity necessarily, but it's a little bit more contrast. Um, and actually that makes in the red profile especially, that makes color grading a lot a lot easier. And so, yeah, you're right. If if you're shooting in H.265, I think the FX3 looks better. I think the quality in terms of detail and colors and all that stuff, dynamic range, even dynamic range, you don't get as much dynamic range in the Nikon H.265 codec as you do in the Red Raw. So, it starts being much more like even. And I would say here is where the FX3 in my opinion just wins. It looks better in my opinion. So, if you just shot H.265 always and you never used the Red Raw, I think the FX3 wins here. Now, the Red Raw is in there and it is incredible and it is in my opinion much better than the FX3 H.265 image. And uh some of you might be thinking like I've I've been through this before. I bought a camera that had RAW and I never used it. I have that I've done that exact same thing before. I think this is actually different. I think that the Red Raw is easy enough to use. Right now, you can't just use it straight in Da Vinci and stuff, but soon you will be. And once you can do that, I feel like there's no reason to not shoot in the Red Raw. So, in terms of image quality, I have to give it to the Nikon ZR. That is one point for the Nikon. And that's like the craziest point I think out of this whole uh comparison. I did not expect that at all. Now, let's right away talk about then file sizes. So, file sizes, that is the big worry always with RAW. The file sizes actually aren't that bad. So, if you're shooting in H.265, the highest quality on the FX3, it's going to be 100 megabits per second. On the Nikon ZR, if you're shooting in the highest quality, 6K Red Raw, 24 frames per second, it's 190 megabits per second. So, almost double, yes, but that's still not crazy. To me, that is very doable. And for that quality boost increase, I would do it. I would take the extra data for sure. And so it's if it was like 1,00 megabits per second or something, then I'd be like I think most of us unfortunately just aren't going to use it and so kind of sucks. 190 very doable. And so I think I give this one to the Nikon. They did a really good job of essentially dumbing it down enough that it's still very usable for this class of cameras. We remember we had to talk about who is this camera for. It's not for the Hollywood productions. It's for the casual proumer, wedding shooter, documentaries, you're doing little commercials, you're doing uh music videos, you're doing any of that kind of stuff. And in those cases, you don't want terabytes and terabytes of footage. If you're working on big time commercials, terabytes and terabytes of footage doesn't matter as much. It still does. You would you wouldn't think it does. It still does. They're thinking about it, too. That's why people don't shoot airy raw most of the time because it's just insane file sizes. But yeah, I think I got to give another point for the ZR. This was a great job. We still have the H.265, great, but the Red Raw is doable in terms of data. Then let's talk autofocus. Uh, I did some tests uh with the autofocus moving around and there was no situation where I'm like, "Oh, the Nikon is way worse or the FX3 is way better or worse." To me, they look very similar. I think you're just going to have to dial in the settings. Um, like the the way they work might might be a little bit different. So maybe like sensitivity 3 or what I don't even know what the they call them in in the Nikon. Um maybe that's different from the FX3. And so you're going to have to dial it in so that it it works for you. But just straight default. These were the default settings. I had no issues with autofocus. It works great, which is incredible. And I think this makes it the first RED camera with autofocus. Yes. Um the Komodo X or something they that had autofocus, but like did it really? I don't think it worked very well. So, I wouldn't quite classify that as a as a red car with autofocus. Autofocus is great. I'm going to give a point for both. Autofocus works. No issues there. Then, let's talk about slow motion. So, this is where things get a little bit interesting. At first, I was like, "Oh, crop on the the ZR." Yeah, FX3 wins slow motion for sure. So, they can both do 120 frames per second, but the ZR has a slight crop. The FX3 doesn't. And I love that. I I hate that when there's like a crop. But then I realized, wait a second, it's 4K 120 frames per second in Red Raw on the ZR. And so with that in mind, I don't really know how to score this one. I I I think it if it wasn't Red RAW, I would for sure give it to the FX3. It's just better in slow motion. It's really nice. There's a slight crop on the ZR and so that's annoying. But it's Red Raw. I did not expect it to be Red RAW. 120 frames per second. As much as it hurts me, I think I got to give it a tie. If I could like score it, it would maybe be like a slightly bigger point for the FX3. And then the the the Nikon still gets a point. But I I think this is a tie. I I think the slow motion is actually great. At first I was like, "Oh, the slow motion is the big downside." And we get 60 frames per second, 6K Red Raw. That is incredible. Uh so I think we give both a point. Slight differences. Know the differences. I don't think either is going to be a hindrance or a big bother to you. Both do great slow motion. That's good news. Then let's talk about the body. And I talked to a few people and they're just like, "Oh, great image, but the body is horrible. It's It's so bad. It's blah blah blah. I I think I disagree with that. I I 100% agree. It would be great to have mounting points, more mounting points. There's only one mounting point on the Nikon ZR. That being said, it is super lightweight. I like the shape of it. It's essentially like a ZV1 type. Like it's skinny, kind of like a rectangle. It feels nice in the hand to me. people are going to freak out that it doesn't have like a really like strong like hand grip thing. I honestly I liked using I when I was using it I never was like a this sucks. And I think where people are freaking out is the whole like oh but it's going to be terrible to put a cage on it. And that is where I think my thinking goes in a different direction. I think in general we cage cameras because they don't have the things we need. They need a bigger LCD screen. We need to put in all these audio stuff. So, we need to cage it and then add all that stuff on there. Battery life is crappy or whatever. So, we need to add a Vmount. We need to put a cage on it. In this case, I don't know if we really need a cage as much. Again, think about who this camera is for. It's for that proumer, you know, that like middle category, small to medium budget projects. I don't know if you need to cage this. And so, so I I think if we just looked at the body, like mounting points and all that, we're going to give FX3 a point. Let's give FX3 a point on that. But then let's look at the LCD screen. The LCD screen is so good on the Nikon ZR that it is laughable now trying to use the FX3. It is like a joke. the the LCD screen is so much better on the ZR to the point it's 4 in that do you really need to mount a 5 in monitor when you already have a really great 4 in monitor on there? I think not. I would much prefer not to rig it out and put a cage on there, put a monitor on there and then I need a battery to to power the monitor. I would much rather just have a really great monitor built into the camera. And so, do I need to cage it? Not really. And so the LCD screen is a huge point for the Nikon ZR. Now, micro HDMI on the Nikon ZR, but again, I did the like would you rather thing. Would you rather have full-size HDMI and always have to plug in a monitor like on the FX3 or would you rather have a really nice monitor and micro HDMI? I would rather take the micro HDMI. That's just me. That's not that big of a deal. It's kind of stupid, but also I don't care because I'm probably not going to put a monitor on this thing most of the time. And then along with this whole having to put a cage on there, let's talk about the audio. The Nikon ZR has 32-bit float built in. That means that you're never going to blow your audio. It's never going to be too quiet or too loud. As long as the feed that's going into the camera is not blowing out like from your labs or something like that, you are safe. And like we've all done this before where we messed up our audio and it really really sucks. You can't do that on the Nikon ZR, which means that you probably have much more leeway in terms of what microphones you use and how you do audio versus, let's say, on the FX3. And that's why you need that top handle and XLRs and all that stuff. And and you're we're still going to get a lot of those accessories, I think, through uh Nikon. They're going to make some sort of XLR, you know, whatever, whatever. But the 32-bit float also just I think influences how much you have to rig this thing out. And so again, do I need to cage it? I don't know. I I hope somebody makes a really small, lowprofile uh cage that adds a few mounting points just in case I need them, but I'm probably not going to cage this thing too often. And so audio is 100% a win for the Nikon ZR. It is just so nice having 32-bit float. I don't know how every camera should have 32-bit float. Um, that is like a no-brainer. If they can do it in small little like lab devices, they can do it inside a camera. I will say though, the top handle situation is I would call vicarious. That is the one part that I'm like, how is that going to work when there is no mounting points on top to make it secure? So, you're if you want a top handle, you probably do need some sort of cage. That is the only thing that like makes me think, uh, okay, yeah, maybe you still do need a cage. I I wish they would have just put two mounting points on the top of the Nikon ZR so that they could have a really sturdy handle. That I think is a big miss on the Nikon ZR. But I'm very curious to see how they do like the little XLR unit on there. Maybe they somehow figure out how to do a nice handle that still kind of works. Let's talk about card slots. FX3 has dual card slots. The Nikon ZR has a good card slot and then a micro SD. So, like FX3 wins that one for sure. Point FX3. Then let's talk about low light. Right off the bat, you look at the specs, you're like, "Well, the FX3 is better at low light because the base ISOs on the FX3 are 640 and 12,800. Incredible." On the ZR, they are 800 and 6,400. Still great, very great. I love having dual base ISO, but not as good as the FX3. So, low light, you can look at the the differences. I think the ZR is really great in low light still. I don't think it's going to be a problem for most people, especially if you have a nice fast lens, an F1.4 or an F1.2. Um, Nikon has some nice ones there. So, I don't think it's bad. And even at like the max ISOs, I feel like you could den noiseise and probably be kind of fine, but typically I just stick to base ISOs. So, yeah, we're going to give the FX3 a point here, but the the ZR, I don't think you're going to have any issues with low light. Both are great uh low light cameras, but of course the FX3 is like built with a 12 megapixel sensor to be a low light camera. Then we got to do price. Price is clearly on the side of the Nikon ZR. That there's no getting around that. The FX3 is almost twice the price. I almost feel like at this point the FX3 is quite old. And so if the FX3 Mark II doesn't come out soon, I think Sony has to drop the price. But maybe that just pisses off a lot of people who bought the FX3 more recently, so maybe they can't. But like I don't think that the FX3 is quite worth that price in a way right now. It's a great camera still, so it's hard to say that. But now with this Nikon ZR and that price, it's like uh I don't know. Um it should be I think a little bit cheaper. So I'm going to give the point to the Nikon ZR. It is definitely cheaper. But that leads us to the other probably more expensive thing and that is lenses. That is going to be the biggest thing for most people who are thinking like should I switch to the Nikon is like but the lens is just going to it's it's way more than just buying a new body having lenses that is like the most expensive part of film making pretty much. This is a Sony 50 mil F1.2. This is a Zmount Nikon 50 mil F1.2. Look at the size difference. Massive size difference between these lenses. Um, and that is definitely something to to think about because it's not just the camera you're buying. You are investing in a completely different ecosystem, different lenses. And if you already have a bunch of Sony lenses, this, you know, times a few lenses in your lens bag, it's a big difference. Even just weight-wise, this is so much heavier than the Sony lens. I will say though, whenever I see big glass, I think that the lens is just going to be nicer. I don't know if that's true or not, but Nikon has massive glass. So, I don't know. Maybe this one's better. Maybe it's worth it. Maybe it's not. Maybe you can't tell any difference. I don't know. And if you look at uh lenses, uh for Canon RF, there's only 205 lenses. For a Nikon Zmount, there are 338 lenses, which is really great. For a Sony E-mount, there's 589 E-mount lenses. That is incredible. And so, I think in terms of just pure lenses, the FX3 wins this. There are Sony has done such a good job of making lenses and opening it up to third parties to make lenses. I I think this is one of the biggest reasons that Sony is so popular is there's so many lens options and one of the reasons why Canon is not doing as well is because they really locked down the RF mount. They they shouldn't have done that. They should have opened it up. The more lenses the better, but they were greedy. They wanted to sell the lenses, their own lenses, and I think they're really hurting because of that. Now, I thought that this was going to be a big problem because uh in terms of Nikon, they don't have a 16 to 35 F2.8. Like, hello. What? That is like bizarre to me. To me, that's part of the holy trinity. 16 to 35, 24 to 70, 7200. Those are the three most important zoom lenses. And they just don't have the first one. And they also don't have a 24 mil 14, which maybe for you that sounds like, why is he picking that? That is my favorite lens. That's what I'm using right now. It is incredible. I love the 20 24 mil um F14. Incredible. They don't have it. But then I realized that I did not know this, but there is just enough space to use an adapter and use E-mount lenses on a Zmount camera, which means I could potentially just use all my Sony lenses. This is the Sigma 35 mil F12. I could just use this on that Nikon and not have to buy all new lenses. That is incredible. And so far, I've seen a few people say that they've been doing this for years. Autofocus is great. That is awesome. That is so nice to hear because that would have been the biggest reason why I would not switch to the ZR is if I did not have the right lenses to use. I just can't do it. If I don't have the right lenses, I just can't do it. And so essentially, not only do you have 338 Zmount lenses, you essentially have 338 plus 5889 uh lenses to choose from and plus tons of more. I bet you can adapt basically anything. If you can do E-mount to Zmount, you can basically do any lens um with an adapter and that is incredible. That is awesome. So, just purely what the lenses are like E-mount versus Zmount FX3 gets a point, but I think we have to give a point to Nikon here for being really smart with this. I don't know if they actually did this on purpose or by accident, but the fact that you can adapt an E-mount lens to the Zmount is so smart and so good. um that I want to give them a point for that because yeah, that actually makes it way more easier to switch to the ZR right now. I just don't see why I wouldn't have a ZR body on hand at all times even if I still continue to use my Sony FX3. And lastly, I just I I need to do color grading as a category by itself. I know we talked talked about image quality. I think in terms of color grading, the Nikon ZR with that Red Raw is easier to color grade. The image ends up being nicer. you will have way le less headaches in color grading. And so I want to give another point for the Nikon ZR. Um because I I think that is a big deal for a lot of people, especially if you're not good at color grading. This makes it so much easier to get really nice looking footage. And I'm so glad that they went with a 12bit slightly dumbed down version, not like the 16 bit crazy data. This was super smart by Nikon. Did I just say Did I just say that Nikon was being smart in terms of video? cuz that that was the first time in my life that I've said that I didn't do extensive rolling shutter, but from every everything I've seen so far, I think my estimates were correct that the the rolling shutter is just slightly better um on the FX3 than the Nikon ZR, which is actually a win for the Nikon because you're shooting in 6K Red RAW. You would think, oh, the the rolling shutter, the readout speed would be pretty bad. And the readout speed seems to be really good. I I'm tempted to give it to the FX3, but I think this is again kind of a point for both of them. I think they're they're really close. They're both really great. I I don't think you're going to have any issues with rolling shutter on either camera. I like that. So, after tying up the points, you can see that it's very, very close. And I and you might have scored them slightly differently. So, I I think it's like very very very close. But again, I think you have to look at this from the lens of that price. And I think like the image quality category, it's probably worth more than one point if you're comparing like dual card slots and image quality like very different uh categories. So, the big question is, should you be switching or buying the Nikon ZR? And here's kind of here's kind of what I would say right now quickly. I feel like I need to do a a whole video just comparing or talking about the three cameras right now. The FX3, the Nikon ZR, and the new Canon C50. Which camera should you use? Which one is the best for you? But right now, if we're talking about the FX3 and the ZR, I think as a Sony user for 5 years, five plus years now, this is the first camera where I'm I'm genuinely actually thinking about getting one. And I I don't I don't think I I need to get rid of my FX3s, if that makes sense. But I have a feeling I'm going to end up I'm going to get the Nikon ZR and I'm probably going to end up using it more and more and more to the point where the FX3 just gets, you know, left on the shelf. Now, when is Sony going to come out with the FX3 Mark II? Is that going to come soon? I have no idea. That could completely change things. Um, but I I me as an FX3 user, I have no reason to not get a camera body that's $2,200, fairly reasonable, and just start using the lenses I have right now. It is incredible. Like that that camera, the more I think about it, it's unreal for that price. Um, what what we're getting is crazy. Yeah, I think if you're, you know, right now using like an iPhone for video and you're like, I want to get my first real camera, if you're using like a very cheap version of a mirrorless or whatever, like a very budget level, the Nikon ZR makes all the sense for you. It is so good for that price. Um, that is the camera that I'm going to be recommending to like anybody who's like, I'm thinking about getting into video, get the Nikon ZR if you can afford it. It is incredible. Um, if you are a Sony user right now, I don't think like I don't think your work is going to suffer if you don't have the ZR. I I I don't think people are going to notice that much in the end that like, oh, is that is that the ZR or the FX3? The quality. Like, I don't think people will realize they look at the work. Is the work good? If the work is good, nobody's going to really notice between the FX3 and the ZR, let's be honest. But if you're thinking about like, should I get another FX3? I need a second body. Get the ZR. It's it's an easy decision. Uh get the ZR. Might be a little bit annoying having to match the cameras, but uh I think the ZR offers things that the FX3 does not right now. If you're Canon still for video, yeah, that that is a tough conversation. I'm sorry. I'm uh yeah, that's that's tough. The one thing I will say is that Sony still has the full lineup. Like you you get an affordable camera and you work your way up all the way to the highest end Venice cameras. I just heard one of my favorite DPS. He was just talk I was I was messaging with Amy. He's like, "I've actually been using the Venice a lot lately." And that is interesting. Like Air is not, you know, the de facto necessarily always anymore for the super high-end projects. So you Sony has the full lineup whereas Nikon well I guess you you could say that you go from like this to a red camera but that's like a whole different world. You're doing a massive jump all of a sudden. I don't think that they have the camera graduation effect going on. I made a whole video about that how Blackmagic is starting to I think do that fairly well. Sony does it the best still. And so uh yeah I think it'll be it'll be hard for a lot of people to switch to a Nikon. I know, I know that feeling that you're feeling right now. But I think as time goes on, more and more people are going to switch to the ZR. And depending how long it takes Sony to release something interesting, more and more people are just going to pick up the ZR because it's very affordable and it's really good. And if Nikon can can do that, convert a few people and show them that they can actually do good video, that is a huge win for Nikon. Well done, Nikon. That is all I can say. Well done. All right. I hope this helped you to get some more information, get get a little more thoughts in your head about which camera you should go for. But um I think for most people right now, I would recommend the Nikon ZR. I said it. I said it. All right. Bye, guys.